The Project Gutenberg EBook of Masonic Monitor of the Degrees of Entered
Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason, by George Thornburgh

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Masonic Monitor of the Degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason
       together with the Ceremony of Installation, Laying Corner
       Stones, Dedications, Masonic Burial, Etc.

Author: George Thornburgh

Release Date: September 28, 2009 [EBook #30118]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MASONIC MONITOR ***




Produced by Alicia Williams, Jen Haines and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: GEORGE THORNBURGH]




    MASONIC MONITOR

    OF THE DEGREES OF

    Entered Apprentice, Fellow
    Craft and Master Mason

    TOGETHER WITH THE

    Ceremony of Installation, Laying
    Corner Stones, Dedications,
    Masonic Burial, Etc.

    BY

    GEORGE THORNBURGH

    P. G. M., and Custodian of the Secret Work

    COPYRIGHT 1903, BY
    GEORGE THORNBURGH
    LITTLE ROCK, ARK.




CONTENTS.


    Order of Business.

    Masonic Dates.

    Opening Prayer and Charge.

    Closing Prayer and Charge.

    Closing Ceremonies.

    Entered Apprentice.

    Fellow Craft.

    Master Mason.

    Grand Honors and Reception of Visitors.

    Election and Installation.

    Instituting Lodge.

    Constituting Lodge.

    Laying Corner Stone.

    Dedication of Hall.

    Funerals.

    Lodge of Sorrow.




ORDER OF BUSINESS.


At stated communications:

First. Reading the minutes.

Second. Considering unfinished business.

Third. Receiving and referring petitions.

Fourth. Receiving report of committees.

Fifth. Balloting for candidates.

Sixth. Receiving and considering resolutions.

Seventh. Conferring degrees.

At called meetings no business should be taken up except that for which
the meeting was called.

The 24th of June and 27th of December are regular meetings, but it is
not best to take up routine business. Let it be a celebration, and not a
business session.




TO FIND AND WRITE MASONIC DATES.


=Lodge.=--(Anno Lucis--the year of light). Add 4,000 to the common year;
thus, for 1903, write: A. L. 5903.

=Chapter=.--(Anno Inventionis--the year of discovery). Add 530 to the
common year.

=Council.=--(Anno Depositionis--the year of deposit). Add 1,000 to the
common year.

=Commandery.=--(Anno Ordinis--the year of the order). Subtract 1,118
from the common year.




Certificate and Recommendation


This is to Certify that we have examined the manuscript of the Monitor,
prepared by Bro. George Thornburgh, and we approve the same.

    GEORGE THORNBURGH,   }
    W. M. KENT,          } Custodians.
    GEORGE W. DEVAUGHAN, }

    J. M. OATHOUT, Grand Lecturer.

    JOHN T. HICKS, Grand Master.

            ------------

    Little Rock, Ark., August 19, 1903.

_Office of the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge F. and A. M. of
Arkansas_:

This Monitor, prepared by Past Grand Master George Thornburgh,
having been approved by the Custodians of the Work, the Grand
Lecturer and myself, I do recommend the use of the same to all
the lodges in Arkansas.

    JOHN T. HICKS,
        GRAND MASTER.




PREFACE AND DEDICATION.


The demand of the craft throughout the State for a practical working
Monitor of the three degrees, arranged in conformity with the work in
this jurisdiction, culminated in the adoption, by the Grand Lodge of
1902, of the following resolution:

"Resolved, That Brother George Thornburgh be requested to prepare a
Monitor which shall be adopted as the Monitor of this Grand Lodge. When
the proposed Monitor is approved by the Custodians of the Work, the
Grand Lecturer, and the Grand Master, the Grand Master shall be
authorized to recommend it to the lodges."

This Monitor has been prepared in obedience to that resolution. The book
is the child of my heart and mind. A love for the cause inspired its
preparation. It goes to the craft with my earnest prayers that it may
cause a more general and closer study of the beautiful ceremonies of the
first three degrees, which are the foundation of all true Freemasonry. I
dedicate the book to the Masons of Arkansas, who have so often and so
kindly honored me above my merit.

                                  GEO. THORNBURGH.

Little Rock, Ark, Sept. 1, 1903.




PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION


On the 20th of October, 1903, the first edition of one thousand Monitors
was placed on sale. I supposed I would probably dispose of them in the
course of a year, but to my surprise, by December 20 they were all sold.
I placed the second edition of one thousand on sale February 24, 1904,
and by June 15 they were gone. Evidently the Monitor fills a long felt
want.

It was prepared especially to conform to the work in this jurisdiction.
It may be studied with profit by every Mason, whether he be an officer
or not. The youngest Entered Apprentice will find it helpful and useful
in assisting him to fix upon his mind those beautiful first lessons. The
officers from Master of Ceremonies to Worshipful Master will find it
convenient and indispensable in the performance correctly of the
beautiful ceremonies of the institution.

I am gratified beyond expression at the cordial reception the Monitor
has received from the craft.

It is commended in the highest terms by the best workers in the State.
Here are only a few of the hundreds of endorsements sent me.

Grand Master Hicks: "It is the best Monitor to be found for Arkansas
Masons."

Grand Lecturer Oathout had the manuscript sent to his home that he might
very carefully examine it, and he wrote: "I have carefully examined the
manuscript of your Monitor twice over and cheerfully give my
endorsement, believing it to be the best Monitor I have ever seen. I
believe your work will be appreciated by the Craft in Arkansas when they
examine the Monitor."

Brother G. W. DeVaughan, Custodian of the Secret Work: "I am very much
pleased with it."

Brother W. M. Kent, the other custodian of the Secret Work: "Good; I
want another copy."

Our Senior Past Grand Master G. A. Dannelly, who was so long the Grand
Lecturer, says: "I have read it carefully. In my judgment it is the best
Monitor I ever saw. I heartily congratulate you on being the author of
such a book. I recommend it to all the lodges. It would be well if every
member would supply himself with a copy."

Past Grand Master R. H. Taylor: "I have carefully reviewed it from
opening to conclusion. It is a work of great merit, concise and clear,
free and easy of style. It is not alone valuable and useful as a guide
to Arkansas Masons, but to Masons everywhere. In fact if adopted by
other Grand Jurisdictions, would simplify and beautify Masonic work.
Every Mason in the State should own and study the Arkansas Monitor."

Past Grand Master Sorrells, who made the motion in Grand Lodge to have
the Monitor prepared, says: "I have examined it closely, and feel sure
that it will meet the approbation of the Craft throughout this
Jurisdiction."

Past Grand Master Bridewell: "I have examined it and find it complete.
To a newly made Mason it is indispensable, and if every one of them
would get a copy immediately after their raising we would have brighter
and better Masons. It would do a world of good if many of the older
Masons would make it their 'vade mecum.' You have eliminated an immense
quantity of useless matter contained in most Monitors, and that which
you placed in lieu is clear and easily understood. The chapters on
'Laying Corner Stones,' 'Dedicating Lodges,' 'Funerals,' etc., will be
appreciated by all who have those services to perform."

Past Grand Master Baker: "Have examined it carefully and am well
pleased. I think it conforms to the ancient usages of Masonry, and I
feel sure that by the use of it we will have many more Masons in
Arkansas who know something of lodge work. Every lodge ought to have at
least three copies."

Past Grand Master Harry Myers: "I have carefully examined your Monitor
and consider it the best for our lodges possible to get. It is concise,
yet comprehensive. It takes up the work and follows it in order. No
lodge should be without it. I wish every Mason in the State would
possess himself of this valuable addition to Masonic literature at
once."

May it do more and more good as its circulation increases and its
influence widens.

                                  GEORGE THORNBURGH,
    July 1, 1904.                         Little Rock, Arkansas




MASONIC MONITOR


OF THE DEGREES OF

Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason, together with the
Ceremony of Installation, Laying Corner Stones, Dedications, Masonic
Burials, Etc., Etc.




OPENING THE LODGE.


At regular meetings the lodge must be opened up in regular order and
full form from the E. A. to M. M. degree.

At special meetings it need only be opened in the degree in which work
is to be done.


Congregate.

The J. D. will see that the Tyler is at his station and close the door.


Purge.

    *    *    *

One brother can not vouch for another unless he has sat in open lodge
with him, or examined him by appointment of the W. M.


Tyle.


Opening Prayer.

Most holy and glorious Lord God, the great Architect of the universe,
the giver of all good gifts and graces! In Thy name we have assembled
and in Thy name we desire to proceed in all our doings. Grant that the
sublime principles of Freemasonry may so subdue every discordant passion
within us, so harmonize and enrich our hearts with Thine own love and
goodness, that the Lodge at this time may humbly reflect that order and
beauty which reign forever before Thy throne! Amen!

Response: So mote it be!

Or,

Almighty and merciful God, hear us with indulgence, have pity for our
weakness, and aid us with Thy strength. Help us to perform all our
duties--to ourselves, to other men, and to Thee. Let the great flood of
Masonic light flow over the world. Pardon us when we offend. When we go
astray, lead us back to the true path; and help our feeble efforts to
remove all obstacles to the final triumph of the great law of love; and,
having faithfully performed our duty here below, wilt Thou receive us
into Thy Celestial Lodge above, that house not made with hands, eternal
in the heavens. Amen!

Response: So mote it be!


Closing Prayer.

Extemporaneous, or the following:

Supreme Architect of the Universe, accept our hearty thanks for the many
mercies and blessings which Thy bounty has conferred upon us, and
especially for this social intercourse with our brethren. Pardon, we
beseech Thee, whatever Thou has seen amiss in us, and continue to us Thy
protection and blessing. Make us sensible of our obligations to serve
Thee, and may all our actions tend to Thy glory and our advancement in
knowledge and virtue. Grant that the world--the little circle in which
we move--may be better and happier for our having lived in it, and may
we practice that Charity which is the bond of peace and the perfection
of every virtue. Amen!

Response: So mote it be!

This charge may be used at closing:

Brethren: We are now about to quit this sacred retreat of friendship and
virtue to mix again with the world. Amidst its concerns and employments,
forget not the duties which you have heard so frequently inculcated and
so forcibly, recommended in this lodge. Be diligent, prudent, temperate,
discreet. Remember that around this altar you have promised to befriend
and relieve every brother who shall need your assistance. You have
promised, in the most friendly manner, to remind him of his errors and
to aid his reformation. These generous principles are to extend further:
Every human being has a claim upon your kind offices. Do good unto all.
Recommend it more especially to the "household of the faithful."
Finally, brethren, be ye all of one mind; live in peace; and may the God
of Love and Peace delight to dwell with and bless you. Amen!

Response: So mote it be!


Benediction.


May the blessing of heaven rest upon us and all regular Masons! May
brotherly love prevail and every moral and social virtue cement us.
Amen!

Response: So mote it be!

    W. M.--"Brother S. W., how should Masons meet?"

    S. W.--"Upon the level of equality."

    W. M.--"Brother J. W., how act?"

    J. W.--"Upon the plumb of rectitude."

    W. M.--"And part upon the square of morality. So may we ever
    meet, act and part, until we meet in the celestial lodge above."




ENTERED APPRENTICE.


S. D.: Mr. ----, we have learned from the declaration, over your
signature, contained in your petition, somewhat of your motives in
applying for admission into our ancient and honorable Fraternity; but,
in order that you may not be misled as to the character or the purpose
of the ceremonies in which you are about to engage, the Lodge addresses
to you these preliminary words:

Freemasonry is far removed from all that is trivial, selfish and
ungodly. Its structure is built upon the everlasting foundation of that
God-given law--the Brotherhood of Man, in the family whose Father is
God. Our ancient and honorable Fraternity welcomes to its doors and
admits to its privileges worthy men of all creeds and of every race, but
insists that all men shall stand upon an exact equality, and receive its
instructions in a spirit of due humility, emphasizing in demeanor, in
conduct, in ceremony and in language the helpless, groping nature of man
at his birth and his needs of reliance upon Divine guidance through all
the transactions of life. You will here be taught to divest your mind
and conscience of all the vices and superfluities of life, and the Lodge
into which you are now to be admitted expects you to divest yourself of
all those worldly distinctions and equipments which are not in keeping
with the humble, reverent and childlike attitude it is now your duty to
assume, as all have done who have gone this way before you.

(Every candidate, previous to his reception, is required to give his
free and full assent to the following interrogatories propounded by the
S. D., in a room adjacent to the Lodge).

Do you seriously declare, upon your honor, that, unbiased by the
improper solicitation of friends, and uninfluenced by mercenary motives,
you freely and voluntarily offer yourself a candidate for the mysteries
of Freemasonry?

Do you seriously declare, upon your honor, that you are prompted to
solicit the privileges of Freemasonry by a favorable opinion conceived
of the institution, a desire for knowledge, and a sincere wish of being
serviceable to your fellow-creatures?

Do you seriously declare, upon your honor, that you will cheerfully
conform to all the ancient usages and established customs of the
Fraternity?

(Let there be no levity--but dignity and decorum.)


FIRST SECTION.

    The preparation to which the candidate must submit before
    entering the Lodge serves allegorically to teach him, as well as
    to remind the brethren who are present, that it is the man
    alone, divested of all the outward recommendations of rank,
    state, or riches, that Masonry accepts, and that it is his
    spiritual and moral worth alone which can open for him the door
    of the Masonic Temple.


Reception.

[Illustration]

    *    *    *

    Let no man enter upon any great or important undertaking without
    first invoking the aid of Deity.

    *    *    *


Prayer.

Vouchsafe Thine aid, Almighty Father of the Universe, to this our
present convention; and grant that this candidate for Masonry may
dedicate and devote his life to Thy service, and become a true and
faithful brother among us. Endue him with a competency of Thy divine
wisdom, that by the influence of the pure principles of our Fraternity
he may be better enabled to display the beauties of holiness, to the
honor of Thy holy name. Amen!

Response: So mote it be!

[Illustration: TRUST in GOD.]

Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together
in unity.

It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the
beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments.

As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains
of Zion: for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for
evermore.--133d Psalm.

[Illustration]

    In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the
    earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the
    face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of
    the waters. And God said, Let there be light, and there was
    light.

[Illustration]

    The three Great Lights in Masonry are the Holy Bible, the Square
    and the Compasses, and are thus explained:

    The Holy Bible is given us as the rule and guide for our faith
    and practice, the Square to square our actions, and the
    Compasses to circumscribe our desires and keep our passions in
    due bounds with all mankind, especially the brethren.

    The three Lesser Lights are the Sun, Moon and Master of the
    Lodge, and are thus explained:

    As the Sun rules the day and the Moon governs the night, so
    should the Worshipful Master, with equal regularity, endeavor to
    rule and govern the Lodge.

    The Representatives of the three Lesser Lights are three burning
    tapers, placed in a triangular form about the altar.

    *    *    *

[Illustration]

=The Lamb-Skin or White Leathern Apron= is an emblem of innocence
and the badge of a Mason; more ancient than the Golden Fleece; more
honorable than the Star and Garter, or any other order that can be
conferred upon you at this or any future period by King, Prince or
Potentate, or any other person except he be a Mason and in the body
of a lodge. I trust you will wear it with equal pleasure to yourself
and honor to the fraternity.

    *    *    *

The following may be used:

It may be that, in the coming years, upon your head may rest the laurel
wreaths of victory; pendant from your breast may hang jewels fit to
grace the diadem of an Eastern potentate; nay, more than these, with
light added to the coming light, your ambitious feet may tread round
after round of the ladder that leads to fame in our mystic circle, and
even the purple of the Fraternity may rest upon your honored shoulders;
but never again from mortal hands, never again until your enfranchised
spirit shall have passed upward and inward through the pearly gates,
shall any honor so distinguished, so emblematical of purity and all
perfections, be conferred upon you as this which I now bestow. It is
yours; yours to wear throughout an honorable life, and at your death to
be deposited upon the coffin which shall inclose your lifeless remains,
and with them laid beneath the clods of the valley.

Let its pure and spotless surface be to you an ever-present reminder of
a "purity of life and rectitude of conduct," a never-ending argument for
nobler deeds, for higher thoughts, for greater achievements. And when at
last your weary feet shall have come to the end of life's toilsome
journey, and from your nerveless grasp shall drop forever the working
tools of life, may the record of your life and actions be as pure and
spotless as this fair emblem which I place in your hands; and when your
trembling soul shall stand naked and alone before the Great White
Throne, there to receive judgment for the deeds done while here in the
body, may it be your portion to hear from Him who sitteth as the Judge
Supreme the welcome words: "Well done, good and faithful servant! Thou
hast been faithful over a few things; I will make thee ruler over many
things! Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."

    *    *    *


Working Tools.

The Working Tools of Entered Apprentice are the Twenty-four-Inch Gauge
and the Common Gavel.

The Twenty-four-inch Gauge is an instrument used by operative masons to
measure and lay out their work; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are
taught to use it for the more noble and glorious purpose of dividing our
time. It being divided into twenty-four equal parts, is emblematical of
the twenty-four hours of the day, which we are taught to divide into
three equal parts, whereby are found eight hours for the service of God
and a distressed worthy brother, eight for our usual vocations, and
eight for refreshment and sleep.

The Common Gavel is an instrument used by operative masons to break off
the corners of rough stones, the better to fit them for the builder's
use; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are taught to use it for the
more noble and glorious purpose of divesting our hearts and consciences
of all the vices and superfluities of life, thereby fitting our minds,
as living stones, for that spiritual building--that house not made with
hands--eternal in the heavens.

[Illustration]

    *    *    *


Reinvested.


Northeast Corner.

* * * an upright man and Mason, and I give it you strictly in charge
ever to walk and act as such before God and man.


SECOND SECTION.

This section accounts, rationally for the ceremonies of initiation.
Containing almost entirely esoteric work, it cannot be written. The
Master should not only familiarize himself with it, but he should also
diligently learn and explain to the candidate each truth symbolized by
each step of the ceremonies through which he has just passed.

    *    *    *


Offensive or Defensive.

At the building of King Solomon's Temple there was not heard the sound
of axe, hammer or any tool of iron. The question naturally arises, How
could so stupendous an edifice be erected without the aid of those
implements? The stones were hewn, squared and numbered in the quarries
where they were raised; the timbers were felled and prepared in the
forests of Lebanon, conveyed in floats by sea to Joppa, and thence by
land to Jerusalem, where they were set up by the aid of wooden
implements prepared for that purpose; so that every part of the
building, when completed, fitted with such exact nicety that it
resembled the handiwork of the Supreme Architect of the Universe more
than that of human hands.

    *    *    *

Masonry regards no man for his worldly wealth or honors; it is therefore
the internal and not the external qualifications of the man that
recommend him to become a Mason.

    *    *    *


In the fourth chapter of the book of Ruth we read: "Now this was the
manner in former times concerning redeeming and changing; for to confirm
all things, a man plucked off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor; and
this was a testimony in Israel." * * *


Cable----.

    *    *    *


Hood----.

    *    *    *


K--no--ks.

    *    *    *

"Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock and it
shall be opened unto you."

    *    *    *

Before entering upon any great or important undertaking, we ought always
to invoke the aid of Deity.

    *    *    *


Trust in God.

    *    *    *


The Left Side.

    *    *    *

The Right Hand, by our ancient brethren, was deemed the seat of
fidelity. The ancients worshiped a deity named Fides, sometimes
represented by two right hands joined, at others by two human figures
holding each other by the right hand.

    *    *    *


The Lamb has in all ages been deemed an emblem of innocence. The
lambskin is therefore to remind you of that purity of life and conduct
which is so essentially necessary to your gaining admission to the
Celestial Lodge above, where the Supreme Architect of the Universe
presides.


Northeast Corner.

It is customary at the erection of all Masonic edifices to lay the first
or foundation stone in the northeast corner of the building. The first
instructions which the candidate receives symbolizes the cornerstone,
and on it he constructs the moral and Masonic temple of his life.


THIRD SECTION.

This section explains the manner of constituting and the proper
authority for holding a Lodge. Here, also, we learn where lodges were
anciently held, their Form, Support, Covering, Furniture, Ornaments,
Lights and Jewels, how situated, and to whom dedicated, as well in
former times as at present.


A Lodge.

[Illustration]

A Lodge is an assemblage of Masons, duly congregated, having Holy Bible,
Square and Compasses, and a dispensation or charter, authorizing them to
work.


Ancient Lodges--Where Held.

Our ancient brethren held their Lodges on high hills or in low vales,
the better to observe the approach of cowans and eavesdroppers,
ascending or descending.

Lodge meetings at the present day are usually held in upper
chambers--probably for the security which such places afford. This
custom may have had its origin in a practice observed by the ancient
Jews of building their temples, schools and synagogues on high hills, a
practice which seems to have met the approbation of the Almighty, who
said unto the Prophet Ezekiel, "Upon the top of the mountain, the whole
limit thereof round about shall be most holy."

[Illustration]


Form and Dimension.

Its form is * * * Its dimension, from east to west, embracing every
clime between north and south. Its universal chain of friendship
encircles every portion of the human family and beams wherever
civilization extends.

A Lodge is said to be thus extensive to denote the universality of
Freemasonry, and teaches that a Mason's charity should be equally
extensive.

[Illustration: W. S. B.]


The Supports of a Lodge.

A Lodge is supported by three great pillars, denominated Wisdom,
Strength and Beauty; because there should be wisdom to contrive,
strength to support, and beauty to adorn all great and important
undertakings. They are represented by the three principal officers of
the Lodge: The pillar Wisdom, by the W. M. in the East, who is presumed
to have wisdom to open and govern the Lodge; the pillar Strength, by the
Senior Warden in the West, whose duty it is to assist the W. M. in the
discharge of his arduous labors; and the pillar Beauty, by the Junior
Warden in the South, whose duty it is to call the craft from labor to
refreshment, superintend them during the hours thereof, carefully to
observe that the means of refreshment are not perverted to intemperance
or excess, and see that they return to their labor in due season.

Its covering is no less than the clouded canopy or starry-decked heaven,
where all good Masons hope at last to arrive, by the aid of that
theological ladder which Jacob, in his vision, saw extending from earth
to heaven; the three principal rounds of which are denominated Faith,
Hope and Charity; which admonish us to have faith in God, hope of
immortality and charity to all mankind. The greatest of these is
Charity; for Faith may be lost in sight, Hope ends in fruition, but
Charity extends beyond the grave through the boundless realms of
eternity.


Furniture.

The furniture of a lodge consists of the Holy Bible, Square and
Compasses.

The Holy Bible is dedicated to God; because it is the inestimable gift
of God to man. The Square to the Master, because it is the proper
Masonic emblem of his office; and the Compasses to the craft, because,
by a due attention to their use, they are taught to circumscribe their
desires, and keep their passions within due bounds.

[Illustration]


Ornaments.

The Ornaments of a Lodge are the Mosaic Pavement, the Indented Tessel
and the Blazing Star.

The Mosaic Pavement is a representation of the ground floor of King
Solomon's Temple; the Indented Tessel, of that beautiful tessellated
border or skirting which surrounded it. The Mosaic Pavement is
emblematical of human life, checkered with good and evil; the Indented
Tessel, or tessellated border, of the manifold blessings and comforts
which constantly surround us, and which we hope to enjoy by a firm
reliance on Divine Providence, which is hieroglyphically represented by
the Blazing Star in the centre.


Lights.

A Lodge has three symbolic lights; one in the East, one in the West and
one in the South, represented by the W. M., S. W. and J. W. There is no
light in the north, because King Solomon's Temple, of which every lodge
is a representation, was so far north of the elliptic that the sun could
dart no rays into the northern part thereof. The north, therefore, we
Masonically call a place of darkness.


Jewels.

A Lodge has six jewels; three of these are immovable and three movable.

The Immovable Jewels are the Square, Level and Plumb. The Square
inculcates morality; the Level, equality, and the Plumb, rectitude of
conduct. They are called immovable jewels, because they are always to be
found in the East, West and South parts of the Lodge, being worn by the
officers in their respective stations.

The Movable Jewels are the Rough Ashlar, the Perfect Ashlar and the
Trestle-Board.

The Rough Ashlar is a stone, as taken from the quarry, in its rude and
natural state. By it we are reminded of our rude and imperfect state by
nature.

The Perfect Ashlar is a stone made ready by the hands of the workmen, to
be adjusted by the working tools of the fellow craft; and reminds us of
that state of perfection at which we hope to arrive by a virtuous
education, our own endeavors and the blessing of God.

The Trestle-Board is for the master workman to draw his designs upon. By
it we are reminded that, as the operative workman erects his temporal
building agreeably to the rules and designs laid down by the master on
his trestle-board, so should we, both operative and speculative,
endeavor to erect our spiritual building agreeably to the rules and
designs laid down by the Supreme Architect of the Universe, in the great
books of nature and revelation, which are our spiritual, moral and
Masonic trestle-boards.


How Situated.

A Lodge is situated due east and west, because King Solomon's Temple was
so situated; and also because, when Moses crossed the Red Sea, being
pursued by Pharaoh and his hosts, he erected a Tabernacle by Divine
command, and placed it due east and west to receive the first rays of
the rising sun, and to commemorate that mighty east wind by which the
miraculous deliverance of Israel was effected.

[Illustration]


Dedication of Lodges.

Our ancient brethren dedicated their lodges to King Solomon because he
was our first most excellent Grand Master, but Masons of the present
day, professing Christianity, dedicate theirs to St. John the Baptist
and St. John the Evangelist, who were two eminent patrons of Masonry;
and since their time there is represented in every regular and well
govern lodge a certain point within a circle embordered by two
perpendicular parallel lines, representing St. John the Baptist and St.
John the Evangelist; and upon the top rests the Holy Scriptures. The
point represents the individual brother; the circle, the boundary-line
of his duty beyond which he is never to suffer his passions, interests
or prejudices to betray him. In going around this circle we necessarily
touch on the two parallel lines, as well as the Holy Scriptures, and
while a Mason keeps himself circumscribed within these due bounds, it is
impossible that he should materially err.


Tenets.

The three great tenets of a Mason's profession inculcate the practice of
those commendable virtues, Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth.

Brotherly Love.--By the exercise of brotherly love we are taught to
regard the whole human species as one family--the high and low, the rich
and poor--who, created by one Almighty Parent and inhabitants of the
same planet, are to aid and protect each other. On this principle
Masonry unites men of every country, sect and opinion, and conciliates
true friendship among those who might otherwise have remained at a
perpetual distance.

Relief.--To relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent on all men, but
particularly on Masons who profess to be linked together by an
indissoluble chain of sincere affection. To soothe the unhappy, to
sympathize with their misfortunes, to compassionate their miseries and
to restore peace to their troubled minds, is the great aim we have in
view. On this basis we form our friendships and establish our
connections.

Truth is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every virtue. To be
good and true is the first lesson we are taught in Masonry. On this
theme we contemplate, and by its dictates endeavor to regulate our
conduct; hence, while influenced by this principle, hypocrisy and deceit
are unknown among us; sincerity and plain-dealing distinguish us, and
the heart and tongue join in promoting each other's welfare and
rejoicing in each other's prosperity.


P. P. E.

Every Mason has four (p. p. e.) which are illustrated by the four
cardinal virtues: Fortitude, Prudence, Temperance and Justice.

Fortitude is that noble and steady purpose of the mind whereby we are
enabled to undergo any pain or peril, when prudentially deemed
expedient. This virtue is equally distant from rashness and cowardice,
and should be deeply impressed upon the mind of every Mason. It is a
safeguard or security against the success of any attempt, by force or
otherwise, to extort from him any of those valuable secrets with which
he has been solemnly intrusted, and which were emblematically impressed
upon him on his first admission into the lodge, when he was received on
* * * which refers to * * *

Prudence teaches us to regulate our lives and actions agreeably to the
dictates of reason, and is that habit by which we wisely judge and
prudentially determine on all things relative to our present as well as
to our future happiness. This virtue should be the peculiar
characteristic of every Mason, not only for the government of his
conduct while in the lodge, but also when abroad in the world. It should
be his constant care, when in any strange or mixed companies never to
let fall the least sign, token or word whereby the secrets of Masonry
might be unlawfully obtained; ever bearing in mind that important
occasion when on his left * * * which alludes to * * *

Temperance is that due restraint upon our affections and passions which
renders the body tame and governable, and frees the mind from the
allurements of vice. This virtue should be the constant practice of
every Mason; as he is thereby taught to avoid excess, or contracting any
licentious or vicious habit, the indulgence of which would subject him
to the contempt and detestation of all good Masons; and might lead him
to disclose some of those valuable secrets which he has promised to
conceal and never reveal. It will remind you of the p. and alludes to
the * * *

Justice is that standard, or boundary of right, which enables us to
render to every man his just due, without distinction. This virtue is
not only consistent with human and Divine laws, but is the very cement
and support of civil society. As justice in a great measure constitutes
the really good man, so should it be the invariable practice of every
Mason never to deviate from the minutest principles thereof; ever
remembering the time when placed in * * * which alludes to the * * *

[Illustration]


Chalk, Charcoal and Clay.

Entered Apprentices should serve their masters with freedom, fervency
and zeal, which are represented by Chalk, Charcoal and Clay.

There is nothing freer than Chalk, the slightest touch of which leaves a
trace; there is nothing more fervent than Charcoal, for to it, when
properly ignited, the most obdurate metals will yield; there is nothing
more zealous than Clay.

Our Mother Earth alone of all the elements has never proved unfriendly
to man. Bodies of Water deluge him with rain, oppress him with hail and
drown him with inundation; the Air rushes in storms and prepares the
tempest; and Fire lights up the volcano; but the Earth, ever kind and
indulgent, is found subservient to his wishes. Though constantly
harassed, more to furnish the luxuries than the necessaries of life, she
never refuses her accustomed yield, spreading his pathway with flowers
and his table with plenty. Though she produces poison, still she
supplies the antidote, and returns with interest every good committed to
her care; and when at last we are called upon to pass through the "dark
valley of the shadow of death" she once more receives us, and piously
covers our remains within her bosom, thus admonishing us that as from it
we came, so to it we must shortly return.


Symbolism of the Degree.

The First, or Entered Apprentice, degree of Masonry is intended,
symbolically, to represent the entrance of man into the world in which
he is afterwards to become a living and thinking actor. Coming from the
ignorance and darkness of the outer world, his first craving is for
light--not that physical light which springs from the great orb of day
as its fountain, but that moral and intellectual light which emanates
from the primal Source of all things--from the Grand Architect of the
Universe--the Creator of the sun and of all that it illuminates. Hence
the great, the primary object of the first degree is to symbolize the
birth of intellectual light in the mind; and the Entered Apprentice is
the type of the unregenerate man, groping in moral and mental darkness,
and seeking for the light which is to guide his steps and point him to
the path which leads to duty and to Him who gives to duty its reward.


Charge at Initiation.

Brother: As you are now introduced to the first principles of
Freemasonry, I congratulate you on being accepted into this ancient and
honorable Fraternity. Ancient, as having existed from time immemorial;
and honorable, as tending in every particular so to render all men who
will be comformable to its precepts. No institution was ever raised on a
better principle or more solid foundation; nor were ever more excellent
rules and useful maxims laid down than are contained in the several
Masonic lectures. The wisest and best of men in all ages have been
encouragers and promoters of our Art, and have never deemed it
derogatory to their dignity to level themselves with the Fraternity, to
extend its privileges, and to patronize its assemblies.

There are three great duties which as a Mason you are charged to
inculcate: To God, to your neighbor and to yourself. To God, in never
mentioning His name save with that reverential awe which is due from the
creature to his Creator, to implore His aid in all your laudable
undertakings, and to esteem Him as the chief good. To your neighbor, in
acting upon the square and doing unto him as you would that he should do
unto you. And to yourself, in avoiding all irregularities and
intemperance, which may impair your faculties or debase the dignity of
your profession.

A zealous attachment to these duties will insure public and private
esteem.

In the State you are to be a quiet and peaceable citizen, true to your
government and just to your country. You are not to countenance
disloyalty or rebellion, but patiently submit to legal authority and
conform with cheerfulness to the government of the country in which you
live, yielding obedience to the laws which afford you protection.

In your outward demeanor be particularly careful to avoid censure or
reproach. Let not interest, favor, or prejudice, bias your integrity, or
influence you to be guilty of a dishonorable action.

Although your frequent appearance at our regular meetings is earnestly
solicited, yet it is not meant that Freemasonry should interfere with
your necessary vocations, for these are on no account to be neglected;
neither are you to suffer your zeal for the institution to lead you into
argument with those who, through ignorance, may ridicule it.

At your leisure hours, that you may improve in Masonic knowledge, you
are to converse with well-informed brethren, who will always be as ready
to give as you will be to receive instruction.

Finally, my brother, keep sacred and inviolate the mysteries of the
Order, as these are to distinguish you from the rest of the community
and mark your consequence among Masons.

If in the circle of your acquaintance you find a person desirous of
being initiated into the Fraternity, be particularly careful not to
recommend him unless you are convinced that he will conform to our
rules, that the honor, glory and reputation of the institution may be
firmly established, and the world at large be convinced of its good
effects.


Charge to a Soldier.

Brother: Our institution breathes a spirit of general philanthropy. Its
benefits, in a social point of view, are extensive. In the most
endearing ties, it unites all mankind. In every nation, wherever
civilization extends--and not unfrequently among wild savages of the
forest--it opens an asylum to a brother in distress, and grants
hospitality to the necessitous and unfortunate. The sublime principles
of universal goodness and love to all mankind, which are essential to
it, cannot be lost in national distinctions, prejudices and animosities.
The rage of contest and the sanguinary conflict have, by its recognized
principles, been abated, and the milder emotions of humanity
substituted. It has often performed the part of the Angel of Goodness,
in ministering to the wants of the sick, the wounded, and the
unfortunate prisoner of war. It has even taught the pride of victory to
give way to the dictates of an honorable connection.

In whatever country you travel, when you meet a true Mason, you will
find a brother and a friend, who will do all in his power to serve you;
and who will relieve you, should you be poor or in distress, to the
utmost of his ability, and with a ready cheerfulness.

Pure patriotism will always animate you to every call of your country.
And this institution demands that you shall be true to your government.
But should you, while engaged in the service of your country, be made
captive, you may find affectionate brethren, where others would only
find enemies. And should you be the captor of one who belongs to this
noble fraternity, remember that he is your brother.




FELLOW CRAFT.


First Section--Reception.

    *    *    *

[Illustration]

Thus he shewed me: and behold the Lord stood upon a wall made by a
plumb-line, with a plumb-line in His hand.

And the Lord said unto me: Amos, what seest thou? and I said, A
plumb-line. Then said the Lord: Behold, I will set a plumb-line in the
midst of my people Israel;

I will not again pass by them any more. Amos, vii. 7, 8.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


The Working Tools.

The Working Tools of Fellow Craft are the Plumb, the Square and the
Level, and are thus explained:

The Plumb is an instrument used by Operative Masons to try
perpendiculars, the Square to square their work, and the Level to prove
horizontals; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are taught to use them
for more noble and glorious purposes. The Plumb admonishes us to walk
uprightly in our several stations before God and man, squaring our
actions by the Square of Virtue, ever remembering that we are traveling
upon the Level of Time to that "undiscovered country from whose bourne
no traveler returns."


SECOND SECTION.

You now represent a young F. C. on his way to the M. C. of K. S. T., to
have his name enrolled among the workmen, and to be taught the wages of
a F. C. Masonry is divided into two classes, operative and speculative.
We have wrought in speculative Masonry, but our ancient brethren wrought
both in operative and speculative. They wrought at the building of K. S.
T., and many other Masonic edifices. They wrought but six days in a
week, and rested upon the seventh. The seventh, therefore, our ancient
brethren consecrated as a day of rest, the better to enable them to
contemplate the glorious works of creation and to adore their great
Creator.

On our way to the M. C. the first things that attract our attention are
the representatives of two brazen pillars, one upon the left, the other
upon the right of the porch. The one upon the left, denominated * * *
denoted strength; the one upon the right, denominated * * * denoted
establishment, having reference to a passage of Scripture wherein God
said to David, "And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established
forever before thee."

Those pillars were eighteen cubits high, twelve in circumference and
four in diameter. They were prepared of molten brass, the better to
withstand conflagration or inundation. They were cast in the clay
grounds of the river Jordan, between Succoth and Zaradatha, where K. S.
ordered all the holy vessels to be cast. They were hollow, four inches,
or a hand's breadth, in thickness, and served as the archives of Masonry
in which the Rolls, Records and Proceedings were kept. They were adorned
with two chapiters, five cubits each. Those chapiters were ornamented
with net-work, lily-work and pomegranate, denoting union, peace and
plenty. The net-work, from its intimate connection, denotes union. The
lily, from its whiteness, denotes peace. The pomegranate, from the
exuberance of its seeds, denotes plenty. Mounted upon the chapiters were
two globes, representing the terrestrial and celestial bodies, on the
convex surface of which were delineated the countries, seas and other
portions of the earth, the planetary revolutions and other important
particulars. They represented the universality of Freemasonry--that from
east to west and between north and south Freemasonry extends, and in
every clime are Masons to be found, and teach that a Mason's charity
should be co-extensive.

Masonic tradition informs us that those pillars were placed at the porch
of K. S.'s T. as a memento to the children of Israel of their happy
deliverance from the land of bondage, and represented the pillar of
cloud that over-shadowed them by day and the pillar of fire that
illumined them by night.

The next thing that attracts our attention is a flight of winding
stairs, composed of three, five and seven steps. The three steps allude
to the three principal officers of the lodge, three principal supports
in Masonry, and the three principal stages in human life. The three
principal officers are the W. M., S. W. and J. W. The three principal
supports are Wisdom, Strength and Beauty, because it is necessary to
have wisdom to contrive, strength to support and beauty to adorn all
well governed institutions. The three principal stages of human life are
Youth, Manhood and Age--Youth as an E. A., Manhood as a F. C., and Age
as a M. M.

The five steps allude to the five orders of architecture, and the five
human senses. The five orders of architecture are the Tuscan, Doric,
Ionic, Corinthian and Composite, three of which, from their antiquity,
have ever been held in high repute among Masons--the Doric, Ionic and
Corinthian. The five human senses are hearing, seeing, feeling, tasting
and smelling, the first three of which have ever been held in high
repute among Masons, because by hearing we hear the * * *; by seeing we
see the * * *, and by feeling we feel the * * *, whereby one Mason may
know another in the dark as well as in the light.

The seven steps allude to many sevens--the seven sabbatical years, seven
years of plenty, seven years of famine, seven years during which K. S.'s
T. was in course of erection, seven golden candlesticks, but more
particularly the seven liberal arts and sciences, which are Grammar,
Rhetoric, Logic, Arithmetic, Geometry, Astronomy and Music.

(Note:--A fine effect can be had, if an organ is played, by using the
following. The organist should begin to play softly when the speaker
begins on "Music:")

Music is that elevated science which affects the passions by sound.
There are few who have not felt its charms, and acknowledged its
expressions to be intelligible to the heart. It is a language of
delightful sensations, far more eloquent than words; it breathes to the
ear the clearest intimations; it touches and gently agitates the
agreeable and sublime passions; it wraps us in melancholy, elevates us
in joy and melts us in tenderness. Again the pathetic dies away and
martial strains are heard, reminding us of the battlefield and its
attendant glory.

(As the word "glory" is pronounced the organist at once strikes the
chords of some war-music like "Dixie," "Marseilles Hymn," etc. After a
few bars are played with full organ, the organist lets the music die
away to a soft and gentle tremolo, and the Deacon resumes):

The glorious notes of the battle-hymn float over the red field of
carnage. Brave men hear the inspiring music; the ranks close up; the
bayonets are fixed; and, with a cheer which strikes terror to the heart
of the foe, they rush forward in one glorious charge, across the plain
slippery with the blood of patriots, up the opposing hillside, even to
the mouth of cannon belching forth fire and death.--But stop! Look
yonder! The dying soldier raises his head. His breast is already crimson
with his heart's-blood. His eye even now is dimming and glazing. The old
home comes back to him in memory. He puts his hand to his ear as if
listening. What does he hear?

(Here the organist plays softly the strains of "Home, Sweet Home," or
some well-known lullaby; during which the Deacon continues):

Ah, it is the old, old melody of youth and home! Again we are around the
old hearthstone. Again do we kneel at mother's knee to lisp the evening
prayer. Again she takes us in her arms, and sings to her tired child the
soft, low lullaby of childhood's happy days.--Oh, Music, Music! Art
Divine! Thou dost move and stir the heart as nothing else can do! Yet
never canst thy sweet potency be better used than when it inspires
praise and gratitude to the great Lord and Master of us all!

(At the word "all," the organist promptly strikes the chords of "Old
Hundred," and, to its accompaniment, the Master calling up the Lodge,
all unite in singing the long-metre doxology.)

This brings us to the outer door of the M. C., which we find partly
open, but strictly tiled by the J. W. We will see if we can gain
admission.

J. W.: "Who comes here?"

"A young F. C., on his way to the M. C. to have his name enrolled among
the workmen and to be taught the wages of a F. C."

"How do you expect to pass the outer door?"

"By the * * * and * * * of a F. C."

"Give them."

    *    *    *

"What does this * * * denote?"

"Plenty."

"How is it represented?"

"By a sheaf of corn suspended near a waterfall."

"How did it originate?"

"It originated in consequence of a quarrel that long existed between
Jephtha, judge of Israel, and the Ephraimites. The Ephraimites were a
wicked, stubborn and rebellious people, whom Jephtha strove to subdue by
lenient means, but all to no avail. They became highly incensed because
they were not called to share in the rich spoils of the Ammonitish war,
raised an exceeding great army, crossed over the river Jordan, came down
upon Jephtha and gave him battle. Jephtha, being apprised of their
approach, called out the mighty men of Gilead and put the Ephraimites to
flight. And to make his victory secure, he placed guards at all the
passes on the river Jordan, giving them this password: Shibboleth. The
Ephraimites, being of a different tribe and dialect, could not pronounce
the word Shibboleth, but called it Sibboleth, which trifling defect
proved them enemies, and there fell at that time forty and two
thousand."

"The * * * and * * * with the explanation are correct. You have my
permission to pass the outer door."

This brings us to the inner door of the M. C., which we find partly open
but more strictly tiled by the S. W. We will see if we can gain
admission.

"Who comes here?"

"A young F. C., on his way to the M. C., to have his name enrolled among
the workmen, and to be taught the wages of a F. C."

"How do you expect to pass the inner door?"

"By the true * * * and * * * of a F. C."

"Give them."

    *    *    *

"They are correct. You have my permission to pass the inner door!"

This brings us into the M. C. W. M., this young F. C. has come up to the
M. C. to have his name enrolled among the workmen and be taught the
wages of a F. C.

W. M.: "I congratulate you upon your arrival into the M. C. You have
been admitted for the sake of the letter G. you see suspended over the
Master's station, which entitles you to the enrolling of your name among
the workmen and to be taught the wages of a F. C. Brother Secretary, you
will enroll the brother's name. The wages of a F. C. are C., W. and O.
The C. of nourishment, W. of refreshment and O. of joy. I will also
instruct you in the three P. J. They are a L. E., an I. T., and a F. B.
A. L. E., that you will ever be attentive to lessons from the I. T., and
a F. B. should serve as a faithful repository for all the secrets of the
Fraternity that may be entrusted to your care."

The letter G. has a very significant meaning. It is the initial of
Geometry, the first and noblest of sciences, and the basis on which the
superstructure of Freemasonry is erected. By Geometry we may curiously
trace Nature through her various windings to her most concealed
recesses; by it we discover the power, wisdom and goodness of the Grand
Artificer of the Universe, and view with delight the proportions which
compose this vast machine; by it we discover how the planets move in
their respective orbits and demonstrate their various revolutions; by it
we account for the return of the seasons, and the variety of scenes
which each season displays to the discerning eye. Numberless worlds are
around us, all framed by the same Divine Artist, which roll through the
vast expanse, and are all conducted by the same unerring law of Nature.

A survey of Nature, and the observation of her beautiful proportions,
first determined man to imitate the divine plan and study symmetry and
order. This gave rise to societies and birth to every useful art. The
architect began to design, and the plans which he laid down, being
improved by time and experience, have produced works which are the
admiration of every age.

The lapse of time, the ruthless hand of ignorance and the devastations
of war have laid waste and destroyed many valuable monuments of
antiquity, on which the utmost exertions of human genius have been
employed. Even the Temple of Solomon, so spacious and magnificent, and
constructed by so many celebrated artists, escaped not the unsparing
ravages of barbarous force. Freemasonry, notwithstanding, still
survives. The attentive ear receives the sound from the instructive
tongue, and the mysteries of Freemasonry are safely lodged in the
repository of faithful breasts.

Tools and implements of architecture and symbolic emblems most
expressive have been selected by the Fraternity to imprint on the mind
wise and serious truths, and thus through a succession of ages have been
transmitted unimpaired the most excellent tenets of our institution.

But the letter G. has a far greater significance still. It is the
initial of Deity--a name that, at the mere mention of which, all, from
the W. M. in the east to the youngest E. A. in the northeast corner,
should with meekness reverently bow.

    *    *    *


Lecture.

    *    *    *


Symbolism of the Degree.

If the object of the first degree is to symbolize the struggles of a
candidate groping in darkness for intellectual light, that of the second
degree represents the same candidate laboring amid all the difficulties
that encumber the young beginner in the attainment of learning and
science. The Entered Apprentice is to emerge from darkness to light; the
Fellow Craft is to come out of ignorance into knowledge. This degree,
therefore, by fitting emblems, is intended to typify these struggles of
the ardent mind for the attainment of truth--moral and intellectual
truth--and above all that Divine truth, the comprehension of which
surpasseth human understanding, and to which, standing in the Middle
Chamber, after his laborious ascent of the winding stairs, he can only
approximate by the reception of an imperfect, yet glorious reward in the
revelation of that "hieroglyphic light which none but craftsmen ever
saw."


Charge at Passing.

Brother: Being passed to the second degree of Freemasonry, we
congratulate you on your preferment. The internal, and not the external,
qualifications of a man are what Masonry regards. As you increase in
knowledge you will improve in social intercourse.

It is unnecessary to recapitulate the duties which as a Fellow Craft you
are bound to discharge, or to enlarge on the necessity of a strict
adherence to them, as your own experience must have established their
value. Our laws and regulations you are strenuously to support, and be
always ready to assist in seeing them duly executed. You are not to
palliate or aggravate the offenses of your brethren, but in the decision
of every trespass against our rules you are to judge with candor,
admonish with friendship, and reprehend with justice.

The study of the liberal arts, that valuable branch of education which
tends so effectually to polish and adorn the mind, is earnestly
recommended to your consideration, especially the science of Geometry,
which is established as the basis of our art. Geometry, or Masonry,
originally synonymous terms, being of a divine and moral nature, is
enriched with the most useful knowledge; while it proves the wonderful
properties of nature, it demonstrates the more important truths of
morality.

Your past behavior and regular deportment have merited the honor which
we have conferred, and in your new character it is expected that you
will conform to the principles of the Institution by steadily
persevering in the practice of every commendable virtue.

Such is the nature of your engagements as a Fellow Craft, and to these
duties you are bound by the most sacred ties.




MASTER MASON.


FIRST SECTION.

[Illustration]


Reception.

The Compasses are peculiarly dedicated to this degree, and as a Master
Mason you are taught that between their extreme points are contained the
most important tenets of Freemasonry--Friendship, Morality and Brotherly
Love.


Perambulation.

The following passage of Scripture is introduced:

Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days
come not,

Nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in
them; while the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, be not
darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain:

In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong
men shall bow themselves,

And the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of
the windows be darkened, and the doors shall be shut in the streets,

When the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice
of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;

Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be
in the way,

And the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a
burden, and desire shall fail:

Because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the
streets: or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be
broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at
the cistern.

Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall
return unto God who gave it. (Eccl. xii, 1-7.)

[Illustration: Ecclesiastes XII.]

[Illustration]


Presentation of Working Tools.

The Working Tools of a Master Mason are all the implements of Masonry,
especially the Trowel.

The Trowel is an instrument used by operative masons to spread the
cement which unites the building into one common mass; but we, as Free
and Accepted Masons, are taught to use it for the more noble and
glorious purpose of spreading the cement of brotherly love and
affection--that cement which unites us into one sacred band or society
of friends and brothers, among whom no contention should ever exist,
save that noble contention, or rather emulation, of who best can work
and best agree.

My brother, you have been

    *    *    *


SECOND SECTION.

The lodge represents the Craft at refreshment at the building of K. S.'s
Temple.


Address.

Character and habits of the builder.


Altar.

South, West, East.

Hill west of * * *

[Illustration]

    *    *    *

K. S.--"What is the cause of confusion?"

H. K. T.--"* * *"


First and Second Search.

[Illustration]

During Second Search. 12 F. C. (Ordered Confine).

    *    *    *

Choose from the bands * * * Those traveling in a * * *

[Illustration: Sea Coast of Joppa]


Third Search.

    *    *    *

Fourth Search. * * * Acacia and voices. Capture--Sentence.--W. W. F. T.

    *    *    *

F. C. Released.

    *    *    *


Procession.


Funeral Dirge.

    1. Hark! from the tombs a doleful sound!
         Mine ears attend the cry:
       "Ye living men come view the ground
         Where you must shortly lie.

    2. "Princes! this clay must be your bed,
         In spite of all your towers;
       The tall, the wise, the reverend head,
         Must lie as low as ours."

    3. Great God! is this our certain doom!
         And are we still secure,
       Still walking downward to the tomb,
         And yet prepared no more?

    4. Grant us the power of quick'ning grace,
       To fit our souls to fly.
       Then, when we drop this dying flesh,
         We'll rise above the sky.


Pleyel's Hymn.

    Solemn strikes the fun'ral chime,
    Notes of our departing time;
    As we journey here below
    Through a pilgrimage of woe.

    Mortals, now indulge a tear,
    For mortality is here!
    See how wide her trophies wave
    O'er the slumbers of the grave!

    Here another guest we bring!
    Seraphs of celestial wing,
    To our fun'ral altar come,
    Waft our friend and brother home.

    Lord of all! below--above--
    Fill our hearts with truth and love;
    When dissolves our earthly tie
    Take us to Thy Lodge on high.

The following Prayer is used at the raising of a brother to the degree
of Master Mason:

Thou, O God! knowest our down-sitting and our up-rising, and
understandest our thoughts afar off. Shield and defend us from the evil
intentions of our enemies, and support us under the trials and
afflictions we are destined to endure while traveling through this vale
of tears. Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of
trouble. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also
as a shadow, and continueth not. Seeing his days are determined, the
number of his months is with Thee; Thou hast appointed his bounds that
he cannot pass. Turn from him that he may rest till he shall accomplish
his day. For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will
sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. But man
dieth and wasteth away; yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he?
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up,
so man lieth down, and riseth not till the heavens be no more. Yet, O
Lord, have compassion on the children of Thy creation; administer them
comfort in time of trouble, and save them with an everlasting salvation.
Amen!

Response: So mote it be!

    *    *    *

[Illustration]

    That we should be ever ready to go on foot, and even barefoot,
    on a worthy M. M.'s errand, should his necessities require it,
    and we be no better provided.

    That we should ever remember our brethren in our devotions to
    Deity.

    That the secrets of a worthy M. M., when communicated to us as
    such, should be as secure and inviolate in our breasts as they
    were in his before communication.

    That we should be ever ready to stretch forth a hand to support
    a falling brother, and aid him on all lawful occasions.

    That we should be ever ready to whisper wise counsel in the ear
    of a brother, and warn him of approaching danger.

    *    *    *

    It has been the practice of all ages to erect monuments to the
    memory of exalted worth.

[Illustration]


THIRD SECTION.

This section illustrates certain hieroglyphical emblems, and inculcates
many useful and impressive moral lessons. It also details many
particulars relative to the building of the Temple at Jerusalem.


King Solomon's Temple.

This magnificent structure was founded in the fourth year of the reign
of Solomon, on the second day of the month Zif, being the second month
of the sacred year. It was located on Mt. Moriah, near the place where
Abraham was about to offer up his son Isaac, and where David met and
appeased the destroying angel. Josephus informs us that, though more
than seven years were occupied in building it, yet, during the whole
term it did not rain in the day time, that the workmen might not be
obstructed in their labor. From sacred history we also learn that there
was not the sound of ax, hammer or any tool of iron heard in the house
while it was building. It is said to have been supported by 1,453
columns and 2,906 pilasters, all hewn from the finest Parian marble. It
was symbolically supported, also, by three pillars.

[Illustration]

The three pillars here represented were explained in a preceding degree,
and there represented Wisdom, Strength and Beauty. Here they represent
our three ancient Grand Masters: S. K. of I., H. K. of T., and H. A.;
the pillar Wisdom, S. K. of I., by whose wisdom the Temple was erected,
that superb model of excellence which has so honored and exalted his
name; the pillar Strength, H. K. of T., who strengthened K. S. in his
great and important undertaking; and the pillar Beauty, H. A., the W. S.
of the tribe of Naphtali, by whose cunning workmanship the Temple was so
beautified and adorned.

There were employed in its building 3 Grand Masters, 3,300 Masters or
overseers of the work, 80,000 Fellow Crafts, and 70,000 Entered
Apprentices or bearers of burdens. All these were classed and arranged
in such manner, by the wisdom of Solomon, that neither envy, discord nor
confusion was suffered to interrupt or disturb the peace and good
fellowship which prevailed among the workmen, except in one notable
instance.

    *    *    *

In front of the magnificent porch were placed the two celebrated
pillars--one on the left hand, and one on the right hand. They are
supposed to have been placed there as a memorial to the children of
Israel of the happy deliverance of their forefathers from Egyptian
bondage, and in commemoration of those two miraculous pillars of fire
and of cloud. The pillar of fire gave light to the children of Israel
and facilitated their march. The cloud proved darkness to Pharaoh and
his host and retarded their pursuit. King Solomon, therefore, ordered
these pillars placed at the entrance of the Temple, as the most
conspicuous place, that the children of Israel might have that happy
event continually before their eyes in going to and returning from
divine worship.


The Three Steps.

The Three Steps usually delineated upon the Master's Carpet are
emblematical of the three principal stages of human life: Youth, Manhood
and Age. In Youth, as Entered Apprentices, we ought industriously to
occupy our minds in the attainment of useful knowledge; in Manhood, as
Fellow Crafts, we should apply our knowledge to the discharge of our
respective duties to God, our neighbor and ourselves, so that in Age, as
Master Masons, we may enjoy the happy reflection consequent on a
well-spent life, and die in the hope of a glorious immortality.


The Pot of Incense.

The Pot of Incense is an emblem of a pure heart, which is always an
acceptable sacrifice to Deity; and as this glows with fervent heat, so
should our hearts continually glow with gratitude to the great and
beneficent Author of our existence for the manifold blessings and
comforts we enjoy.


The Beehive.

The Beehive is an emblem of industry, and recommends the practice of
that virtue to all created beings, from the highest seraph in heaven to
the lowest reptile of the dust. It teaches us that as we came into the
world rational and intelligent beings, so we should ever be industrious
ones; never sitting down contented while our fellow-creatures around us
are in want, especially when it is in our power to relieve them without
inconvenience to ourselves.

When we take a survey of Nature, we view man in his infancy, more
helpless and indigent than the brute creation; he lies languishing for
days, months and years, totally incapable of providing sustenance for
himself, of guarding against the attack of the wild beasts of the field,
or sheltering himself from the inclemencies of the weather. It might
have pleased the great Creator of heaven and earth to have made man
independent of all created beings; but as dependence is one of the
strongest bonds of society, mankind were made dependent on each other
for protection and security, thereby enjoying better opportunities of
fulfilling the duties of reciprocal love and friendship. Thus was man
formed for social and active life, the noblest part of the work of God;
and he who will so demean himself as not to endeavor to add to the
common stock of knowledge may be deemed a drone in the hive of nature, a
useless member of society, and unworthy of our protection as Masons.


The Book of Constitutions.

The Book of Constitutions guarded by the Tiler's Sword reminds us that
we should be ever watchful and guarded in our thoughts, words and
actions, particularly when before the enemies of Masonry, ever bearing
in remembrance those truly Masonic virtues, silence and circumspection.


The Sword.

The Sword pointing to a Naked Heart demonstrates that justice will
sooner or later overtake us; and although our thoughts, words and
actions may be hidden from the eyes of men, yet that--

[Illustration]

All Seeing Eye whom the Sun, Moon and Stars obey, and under whose
watchful care even Comets perform their stupendous revolutions, pervades
the inmost recesses of the human Heart, and will reward us according to
our merits.


The Anchor and the Ark.

The Anchor and the Ark are emblems of a well-grounded hope and a
well-spent life. They are emblematical of that Divine Ark which safely
wafts us over this tempestuous sea of troubles, and that Anchor which
shall safely moor us in a peaceful harbor, where the wicked cease from
troubling and the weary are at rest.


Forty-seventh Problem of Euclid.

This was an invention of our ancient friend and brother Pythagoras, who,
in his travels through Asia, Africa and Europe, was initiated into
several orders of priesthood, and raised to the sublime degree of Master
Mason. This wise philosopher enriched his mind abundantly in a general
knowledge of things and more especially in Geometry, or Masonry. On this
subject he drew out many problems and theorems; and among the most
distinguished he erected this, which, in the joy of his heart, he called
Eureka, in the Grecian language signifying "I have found it;" and upon
the erection of which he is said to have sacrificed a hecatomb. It
teaches Masons to be general lovers of the arts and sciences.

[Illustration]


The Hour-Glass.

The Hour-glass is an emblem of human life. Behold how swiftly the sands
run, and how rapidly our lives are drawing to a close! We cannot without
astonishment behold the little particles which are contained in this
machine--how they pass away almost imperceptibly; and yet, to our
surprise, in the short space of an hour they are all exhausted. Thus
wastes man! To-day he puts forth the tender leaves of hope; to-morrow
blossoms, and bears his blushing honors thick upon him; the next day
comes a frost which nips the shoot; and when he thinks his greatness is
still aspiring, he falls, like autumn leaves, to enrich our mother
earth.


The Scythe.

The Scythe is an emblem of time, which cuts the brittle thread of life
and launches us into eternity. Behold what havoc the Scythe of Time
makes among the human race! If by chance we should escape the numerous
ills incident to childhood and youth, and with health and vigor arrive
at the years of manhood, yet withal we must soon be cut down by the
all-devouring Scythe of Time, and be gathered into the land where our
fathers have gone before us.

[Illustration]

Thus we close the explanation of the emblems upon the solemn thought of
death, which, without revelation, is dark and gloomy; but we are
suddenly revived by the ever-green and ever-living Sprig of Faith which
strengthens us, with confidence and composure, to look forward to a
blessed immortality; and we doubt not that, on the glorious morn of the
Resurrection, our bodies will rise and become as incorruptible as our
souls.

Then let us imitate the good man in his virtuous and amiable conduct, in
his unfeigned piety to God, in his inflexible fidelity to his trust,
that we may welcome the grim tyrant Death, and receive him as a kind
messenger sent from our Supreme Grand Master, to translate us from this
imperfect to that all-perfect, glorious and celestial lodge above, where
the Supreme Architect of the Universe presides.

    *    *    *


Lecture.

    *    *    *


Charge.

My Brother--Your zeal for the institution of Masonry, the progress you
have made in the mysteries, and your conformity to our regulations, have
pointed you out as a proper object of our favor and esteem. You are now
bound, by duty, honor and gratitude to be faithful to your trust; to
support the dignity of your character on every occasion; and to enforce,
by precept and example, obedience to the tenets of the Order.

In the character of a Master Mason you are authorized to correct the
errors and irregularities of your uninformed brethren, and to guard them
against a breach of fidelity. To preserve the reputation of the
fraternity unsullied must be your constant care; and for this purpose it
is your province to recommend to your inferiors obedience and
submission; to your equals, courtesy and affability; to your superiors,
kindness and condescension. Universal benevolence you are always to
inculcate, and by the regularity of your own behavior afford the best
example for the conduct of others less informed. The ancient landmarks
of the Order, intrusted to your care, you are carefully to preserve, and
never suffer them to be infringed, or countenance a deviation from the
established usages and customs of the fraternity.

Your virtue, honor and reputation are concerned in supporting with
dignity the character you now bear. Let no motive, therefore, make you
swerve from your duty, violate your vows or betray your trust; but be
true and faithful, and imitate the example of that celebrated artist
whom you have this evening represented. Thus you will render yourself
deserving of the honor which we have conferred, and merit the confidence
that we have reposed in you.




FORMS AND CEREMONIES.


Grand Honors.

The public Grand Honors (not funeral) are given by raising the hands
above and a little in front of the head, and clapping them three times
together, then letting them fall to the side--repeating this action
twice, making three times.

The private Grand Honors are made by 3x3, but not in the same way as the
public Grand Honors.


Reception of Visitors.

The reception of visitors with the honor due to their rank is an ancient
custom of the fraternity which should never be omitted. It is an act of
great discourtesy to a visiting officer to omit his formal reception by
the Lodge, and in an official visitation the visiting officer should
ordinarily require it. On the occasion of visits not official it will be
found to greatly increase a true fraternal feeling when courtesy is
properly shown.


I.--Grand Lodge.

When a visit from the Grand Lodge is expected, the Master will see that
a convenient apartment is provided for the use of the Grand Lodge, where
the same can be opened in the proper form. On being notified that the
Grand Lodge is opened and prepared for the visitation, the Master, the
Lodge being opened on the third degree, will send a committee, headed,
if possible, by a Past Master, with the Masters of Ceremony with their
rods, the Deacons with their rods, and the Marshal, to escort the Grand
Lodge. A procession is formed in the following order:

    Marshal.
    Masters of Ceremony.
    Committee.
    Deacons.
    The Grand Lodge.

On arriving at the door, the Grand Marshal will announce:

"The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of F. and A. M. of the State of
Arkansas."

The procession enters, the Masters of Ceremony and Deacons halt inside
the door and cross their rods, the committee proceed, followed by the
Grand Lodge in the inverse order of their rank. When the Grand Master
arrives in front of the altar, he halts, and the Grand Lodge filing to
the right and left form a line across the hall. The committee then
introduce The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Arkansas. The Grand Master then advances to the East, and the Master
receives him according to ancient usages, with the private Grand Honors
of Masonry, and resigns to him the chair and the gavel, each other Grand
Officer taking his station in place of the corresponding officer of the
Lodge, and the brethren are seated.

The Grand Master, at his pleasure, resigns the chair to the Master,
whereupon the other Grand Officers resign their respective stations to
the proper officers of the Lodge, and repair to the East, and take
seats on the right of the Grand Master.

The Grand Lodge should retire before the Lodge is closed. When the Grand
Master announces his intention to retire, the Lodge is called up, the
Grand Honors are given, and the Masters of Ceremony and Deacons repair
to the door and cross their rods, the Marshal conducts the procession of
the Grand Lodge to the door, and salutes as the procession passes him.


II.--The Grand Master.

When a visit from the Grand Master is expected, the Master will see that
a convenient apartment is provided for his use and that of his suite.
When the Grand Master's visit is announced, the Master sends the
Marshal, Deacons, Masters of Ceremony, and one of the oldest members (a
Past Master, if practicable) bearing the Book of Constitutions, to
escort him to the Lodge Room. A procession is formed in the following
order:

    Marshal.
    Masters of Ceremony.
    Suite.
    Brother with the Book of Constitutions.
    Grand Master.
    Deacons.

The Marshal announces to Tyler, Tyler to J. D., and J. D.: "The Most
Worshipful Grand Master of Masons of Arkansas," when the Master calls up
the Lodge. The Masters of Ceremony stop inside, and cross their rods,
while the others proceed towards the East. On arriving at the altar, the
suite open inwards, the Grand Master passes through, and the others,
filing to the right and left, form a line across the hall. The private
Grand Honors are then given. The Grand Master advances to the East, and
the Master receives him, resigns to him the chair and the gavel. The
suite take place on the right of the Master, and the Lodge is seated.

The Grand Master may decline to receive the chair and gavel, or at his
pleasure may resign the same.

When the Grand Master announces his intention to retire, having
previously resigned the chair and gavel to the Master, the Lodge is
called up, the Private Grand Honors are given and the Master directs the
proper officers to attend for the escort of the Grand Master. The
Masters of Ceremony halt at the door, cross their rods, and the other
officers escort the Grand Master to his apartment.


III.--The Deputy Grand Master, Grand Wardens, Etc.

The form will be the same as for the Grand Master, except that the Book
of Constitutions will not be borne before them.


IV.--Other Brethren.

When a brother visits a Lodge for the first time and has been vouched
for, the Master will send the Senior Deacon to introduce him. That
officer conducts him to the Altar and says:

"Worshipful Master, I have the pleasure of introducing to you Brother
......, of ...... Lodge ......"

The Master calls up the Lodge and says:

"Brother ......, it gives me pleasure to Introduce to you the members of
...... Lodge and to welcome you to a seat among us. We meet on ......,
and shall be very glad to welcome you to any of our meetings."

The Senior Deacon conducts the visitor to a seat and the Lodge is
seated.

If the visitor is to be examined the W. M. appoints a committee, who
retire at the door of the preparation room, the S. D. passing them out.
When the committee are ready to report, they make an alarm at the door
of the preparation room. The S. D. attends to it, and reports that the
examining committee desire admission. The W. M. directs him to admit
them. When he goes to the door, if the committee expect to report
favorably they will introduce the S. D. to the visitor. The committee
then come in and make their report at the altar that they have examined
......, who claims to be a member of ...... Lodge No. ......, under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of ...... and find him to be a Master
Mason (or, that they are not satisfied to vouch for him as a worthy
Mason). The W. M. seats the committee, and asks if there is any
objection to the admission of ...... as a visitor. Any member of the
Lodge has the right to object to the admission of a visitor, but the
grounds of the objection must be stated to the W. M., who shall judge of
the sufficiency thereof. If there be no objection, the W. M. directs the
S. D. to introduce the brother. The S. D. presents him at the altar and
introduces him to the W. M., who in turn introduces him to the Lodge in
the form above. No brother should be allowed to visit a lodge for the
first time without an introduction. If the visitor is a Past Master, he
should be invited to a seat in the East.




Election and Installation.


The Master, Senior Warden, Junior Warden, Treasurer and Secretary of a
chartered Lodge must be chosen annually by ballot, and by a majority of
votes, at the time fixed in the by-laws. The Senior and Junior Deacons
and Tyler are appointed by the W. M. A Chaplain and Senior and Junior
Masters of Ceremony may be appointed also.

If a lodge fails to elect officers at the time appointed, it may at said
meeting, or at the next regular meeting thereof, appoint a day for such
election, not more than three months from the regular time, and may,
without dispensation, elect officers at said appointed time and install
them at once.

No member in arrears for dues at the time of the regular election shall
be elected or appointed to any office in the Lodge, nor be allowed to
vote at such election.

Every voter is eligible to any office except that of Master.

Where a Lodge finds it absolutely necessary to elect a brother W. M.,
who has not served as Warden, the facts must be reported to the Grand
Master, and the Master-elect must not be installed without his
dispensation.

When vacancies occur in any of the elective offices of the Lodge, they
must be filled by seniority or pro tem. appointments during the
remainder of the term. No election can be held to fill them except by
dispensation of the Grand Master.

Each Lodge may make its own rule as to whether nominations shall be made
or vote without nominations.

No one can be installed by proxy.

Officers re-elected must be installed after each election.

Membership in a Lodge is necessary to eligibility to office except in
case of Tyler and Organist.

Any Past Master in good standing of a Blue Lodge can install the
officers of a Lodge.


INSTALLATIONS.

Officers of a New Lodge.

The new Lodge having been constituted, etc., the Grand Master says:

G. M.: This Lodge having been constituted, I will now install its
officers. Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, collect the official
jewels, place them upon the altar, and present Brother ---- ----, who
has been elected Worshipful Master.

The Deputy Grand Master now conducts the W. M. elect before the altar,
facing the East, and says:

D. G. M.: Most Worshipful Grand Master, I present Brother ---- ----, to
be installed Worshipful Master of this Lodge.

G. M.: Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, have you carefully examined
the brother, and do you find him qualified to discharge the duties of
the office for which he has been chosen?

D. G. M.: Most Worshipful Grand Master, I find him to be qualified and
of good morals, of great skill, true and trusty; and, as he is a lover
of the Fraternity, I doubt not he will discharge his duties with
fidelity and honor.

The Grand Master will perform the installation service to the end,
continuing the ceremony as for annually elected officers, the Deputy
Grand Master assisting.


Annually Elected Officers.

Installing his successor is usually the prerogative of the retiring
Worshipful Master, although any Past Master may act as installing
officer for the occasion. A competent brother (usually a Past Master)
will be appointed to act as Marshal, who will present the officers-elect
for installation. All things being in order, the Installing Officer
says:

Inst. Off.: Brother Marshal, you will present the Worshipful
Master-elect for installation.

Mar: Worshipful Master, I present Brother ----, who has been elected
Worshipful Master of this Lodge, and is now ready for installation.

Inst. Off.: Brethren, you now behold before you Brother ---- ----, who
has been elected to serve this Lodge as Worshipful Master, and now
declares himself ready for installation. If any of you have any reason
to urge why he should not be installed you will make it known now, or
forever after hold your peace. No objection being offered, I shall now
install him.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, I congratulate you upon your election as
Worshipful Master of this Lodge, and it will afford me great pleasure to
invest you with the authority and the insignia of your office. Previous
to your investiture, however, it is necessary that you signify your
assent to those charges and regulations which point out the duty of the
Master of a Lodge:

I. You agree to be a good man and true, and strictly to obey the moral
law?

II. You agree to be a peaceable citizen and cheerfully to conform to the
laws of the country in which you reside?

III. You promise not to be concerned in plots and conspiracies against
the government, but patiently submit to the law and the constituted
authorities?

IV. You agree to pay a proper respect to the civil magistrates, to work
diligently, live creditably, and act honorably toward all men?

V. You agree to hold in veneration the original rulers and patrons of
Freemasonry, and their regular successors, supreme and subordinate,
according to their stations, and submit to the awards and resolutions of
your brethren, in Lodge convened, in every case consistent with the
Constitutions of the Fraternity?

VI. You agree to avoid private piques and quarrels, and to guard against
intemperance and excess?

VII. You agree to be cautious in your behavior, courteous to your
brethren, and faithful to your Lodge?

VIII. You promise to respect genuine brethren, and discountenance
impostors and all dissenters from the original plan of Masonry?

IX. You agree to promote the general good of society, to cultivate the
social virtues, and to propagate the knowledge of the mystic art?

X. You promise to pay homage to the Grand Master for the time being, and
to his officers when duly installed, and strictly to conform to every
edict of the Grand Lodge that is not subversive of the principles and
groundwork of Masonry?

XI. You admit that it is not in the power of any man, or body of men, to
make innovations in the body of Masonry?

XII. You promise a regular attendance on the communications of the Grand
Lodge, on receiving proper notice, and to pay a proper attention to all
the duties of Masonry, on convenient occasions?

XIII. You admit that no new Lodge shall be formed without permission of
the Grand Lodge, and that no countenance be given to any irregular
Lodge, or to any person clandestinely made therein, being contrary to
the ancient charges of Freemasonry?

XIV. You admit that no person can be regularly made a Mason in, or
admitted a member of, any regular Lodge without previous notice and due
inquiry into his character?

XV. You agree that no visitor shall be received into your Lodge without
due examination, or being properly vouched for?

These are the regulations of Free and Accepted Masons. Do you submit to
these charges and promise to support these regulations, as Masters have
done in all ages before you?

The Master answers: I do.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, in consequence of your conformity to the
charges and regulations of the Fraternity, you are now to be installed
Master of this Lodge, in full confidence of your skill and capacity to
govern the same.

The Master is then regularly invested with the insignia of his office,
and the furniture and implements of the Lodge are placed in his charge.
The various implements of his profession are emblematical of his conduct
in life, and are fully explained, as follows:

Inst. Off.: The Holy Writings, that Great Light in Masonry, which guides
us to all truth, directs our path to the temple of happiness, and points
out the whole duty of man.

The Square teaches us to regulate our actions and harmonize our conduct
with the principles of morality and virtue.

The Compasses teach us to limit our desires in every station, that,
rising to eminence by merit, we may live respected and die regretted.

The Rule directs us to punctually observe our duty, press forward in the
path of virtue, and, inclining neither to the right nor to the left, in
all our actions to have eternity in view.

The Line, the emblem of moral rectitude, teaches us to avoid
dissimulation in conversation and action, and to walk in the path which
leads to a blessed immortality.

The Constitution and Laws you are to search at all times and cause to be
read in your Lodge, that none may pretend ignorance of the excellent
precepts they enjoin.

You now receive in charge the Charter, by the authority of which this
Lodge is held. You are carefully to preserve the same and duly transmit
it to your successor in office.

You will also receive in charge the By-Laws of your Lodge, which you are
to see carefully and punctually executed.

The new Master is conducted to the East and placed on the right of the
Installing Officer until the other officers are installed.

The other officers are then severally presented by the Marshal to the
Installing Officer, who delivers to each his appropriate charge.


Senior Warden.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, you have been elected Senior Warden of
this Lodge. Do you solemnly promise that you will serve the Lodge as
Senior Warden for the ensuing year, and will perform all the duties
appertaining to that office to the best of your ability? (He assents.)
You will now be invested with the insignia of your office.

The Level teaches that we are descended from the same stock, partake of
the same nature, and share the same hope; "that we are all children of
one common father, heirs of the same infirmities, and exposed to the
same vicissitudes." It also reminds us that, although distinctions among
men are necessary to preserve subordination, no eminence of station
should make us forget that we are brethren, and that in the Lodge and in
all our Masonic associations, we are on a level. This implement teaches
us that a time will come, and the wisest knows not how soon, when all
distinctions but that of goodness, shall cease, and death, the grand
leveler of all human greatness, reduce us to the same state.

Your regular attendance on the stated and other meetings of the Lodge is
essentially necessary. In the absence of the Master you are to govern
the Lodge, and in his presence assist him in the government of it. Hence
you will perceive the necessity of preparing yourself for the important
duties which may devolve upon you. Look well to the West, and guard with
scrupulous care the pillar committed to your charge.

He is conducted to his proper station.


Junior Warden.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, you have been elected Junior Warden of
this Lodge. Do you solemnly promise that you will serve the Lodge as
Junior Warden for the ensuing year, and will perform all the duties
appertaining to that office to the best of your ability? (He assents.)
You will now be invested with the insignia of your office.

The Plumb admonishes us to walk uprightly in our several stations; to do
unto others as we would have others do to us; to observe the just medium
between intemperance and pleasure, and make our passions and prejudices
coincide with the line of our duty.

In the absence of the Master and Senior Warden upon you devolves the
government of the Lodge; but to you is especially committed the
superintendence of the Craft during the hours of refreshment; it is,
therefore, not only necessary that you should be temperate and discreet
in the indulgence of your own inclinations, but carefully observe that
none of the Craft convert the purpose of refreshment into intemperance
or excess. Look well to the South. Guard with vigilance the pillar
committed to your charge, that nothing may disturb the harmony of the
Lodge or mar its beauty.

He is conducted to his proper station.


Treasurer.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, you have been elected Treasurer of this
Lodge and will now be invested with the jewel of your office.

It is your duty to receive all moneys belonging to the Lodge from the
Secretary, keep a just and true account thereof, and pay them out by
order of the Worshipful Master and consent of the Lodge. Your own honor
and the confidence the brethren repose in you will arouse you to that
faithfulness in the discharge of the duties of your office which its
important nature demands.

He is conducted to his station.


Secretary.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, you have been elected Secretary of this
Lodge, and will now be invested with the jewel of your office.

It is your duty to "keep a faithful record of all things pertaining to
the Lodge, proper to be written, transmit a copy of the same to the
Grand Lodge when required, receive all moneys due the Lodge and pay them
to the Treasurer, taking his receipt for the same."

Your love for the Craft and attachment to the Lodge will induce you
cheerfully to fulfill the very important duties of your office, and in
so doing you will merit the esteem of your brethren.

He is conducted to his station.


Chaplain.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, you have been appointed Chaplain of this
Lodge, and will now be invested with the jewel of your office.

It will be your duty to perform those solemn services which we should
constantly render to our infinite Creator, and which, when offered by
one whose holy profession is "to point to heaven and lead the way," may,
by refining our souls, strengthening our virtues, and purifying our
minds, prepare us for admission into the society of those above, whose
happiness will be as endless as it is perfect.

He is conducted to his station, which is in the East in front and to the
left of the W. M.


The Senior and Junior Deacons.

Inst. Off.: Brothers ---- and ----, you are appointed Deacons of this
Lodge, and are now invested with the badge of your office. It is your
province to attend on the Master and Wardens and to act as their proxies
in the active duties of the Lodge; such as in the reception of
candidates into the different degrees of Masonry, the introduction and
accommodation of visitors, and in the immediate practice of our rites.
The Square and Compasses, as badges of your office, I entrust to your
care, not doubting your vigilance and attention.

They are conducted to their stations.


Masters of Ceremonies.

Inst. Off.: Brothers ---- and ----, you have been appointed Masters of
Ceremonies of this Lodge, and will now be invested with the jewels of
your office. The positions to which you are assigned in the Lodge are
very important. You are to assist the Senior Deacon and other officers
in performing their respective duties. Your conduct should be courteous
and dignified. Remember that in your company the candidate will receive
his first impressions of our institution. Your regular and early
attendance at our meetings will afford the best proof of your zeal and
attachment to the Lodge.

They are conducted to their stations.


Tiler.

Inst. Off.: Brother ---- ----, you have been appointed Tiler of this
Lodge, and will now be invested with the jewel and the implement of your
office.

As the Sword is placed in the hands of the Tiler to enable him
effectually to guard the Lodge against the approach of cowans and
eavesdroppers, and suffer none to pass or re-pass except such as are
duly qualified and have permission of the Worshipful Master, so it
should morally serve as a constant admonition to us to set a guard over
our thoughts, a watch at our lips, and a sentinel over our actions,
thereby preventing the approach of every unworthy thought or deed, and
preserving consciences void of offence toward God and toward man. Your
early and punctual attendance will give us the best proof of your
appreciation of and love for the institution.

He is conducted to his station.

The Installing Officer, addressing the Master, when presenting the
Gavel, explains its power and use.

One * of which calls * * *; two * calls * * *; three * calls * * *

Worshipful Master, behold your brethren!

Brethren, behold your Master!

The grand honors are then given the W. M. by the Lodge, the Marshal
leading in the ceremony.

The brethren are now seated. Then the Grand Master or Installing Officer
may deliver an address or read the following charges, in his discretion:

"Worshipful Master: The superintendence and government of the brethren
who compose this Lodge having been committed to your care, you cannot be
insensible of the obligations which devolve on you as their head, nor
of your responsibility for the faithful discharge of the important
duties annexed to your position.

The honor, reputation and usefulness of this Lodge will materially
depend upon the skill and assiduity with which you manage its concerns;
while the happiness of its members will be generally promoted in
proportion to the zeal and ability with which you propagate the genuine
principles of our institution.

As a pattern for imitation, consider the great luminary of nature,
which, rising in the East, regularly diffuses light and luster to all
within the circle. In like manner, it is your province to spread and
communicate light and instruction to the brethren of your Lodge.
Forcibly impress upon them the dignity and high importance of Masonry,
and seriously admonish them never to disgrace it. Charge them to
practice out of the Lodge those duties which they have been taught in
it; and by amiable, discreet and virtuous conduct, to convince mankind
of the goodness of the institution; so that when a person is said to be
a member of it, the world may know that he is one to whom the burdened
heart may pour out its sorrows, to whom distress may prefer its suit,
whose hand is guided by justice, and whose heart is expanded by
benevolence.

In short, by a diligent observance of the By-Laws of the Lodge, the
Constitutions of Freemasonry, and, above all, the Holy Scriptures, which
are given as a rule and a guide to your faith, you will be enabled to
acquit yourself with honor and reputation, and lay up a crown of
rejoicing, which shall continue when time shall be no more.

Brother Senior and Junior Warden: You are too well acquainted with the
principles of Masonry to warrant any distrust that you will be found
wanting in the discharge of your respective duties. Suffice it to say,
that what you have seen praiseworthy in others you should carefully
imitate; and what in them may have appeared defective you should in
yourselves amend. You should be examples of good order and regularity;
for it is only by a due regard to the laws in your own conduct that you
can expect obedience to them from others. You are assiduously to assist
the Master in the discharge of his trust, diffusing light and imparting
knowledge to all whom he shall place under your care. In the absence of
the Master, you will succeed to higher duties; your acquirements must
therefore be such that the Craft may never suffer for want of proper
instruction. From the spirit which you have hitherto evinced, I
entertain no doubt that your future conduct will be such as to merit the
applause of your brethren and the testimony of a good conscience.

The Lodge being called up, the Installing Officer continues as follows:

Brethren of ---- Lodge: Such is the nature of our constitution, that as
some must of necessity rule and teach, so others must, of course, learn
to submit and obey. Humility in both is an essential duty. The officers
who are chosen to govern your Lodge are sufficiently conversant with the
rules of propriety and the laws of the institution to avoid exceeding
the powers with which they are entrusted, and you are of too generous
dispositions to envy their preferment; I, therefore, trust that you will
have but one aim--to please each other, and unite in the grand design of
being happy and communicating happiness.

"Finally, my brethren, as this Lodge has been formed and perfected in so
much unanimity and concord, so may it long continue. May you long enjoy
every satisfaction and delight which disinterested friendship can
afford. May kindness and brotherly affection distinguish your conduct as
men and as Masons. Within your peaceful walls may your children's
children celebrate, with joy and gratitude, the annual recurrence of
this auspicious solemnity; and may the tenets of our profession be
transmitted through this Lodge, pure and unimpaired, from generation to
generation."

The Marshal then makes proclamation from the South, West and East in the
following manner:

"I am directed to proclaim, and I do hereby proclaim, that the
Worshipful Master, Wardens, and other officers, elected and appointed,
of ---- Lodge, have been regularly installed into their respective
stations."




INSTITUTING AND CONSTITUTING NEW LODGE


Ceremony for Instituting a Lodge Under Dispensation.

The members of the new Lodge, whether they are to be instituted by the
Grand Master, or by a brother deputized by him, will, in either case, be
notified by the Master to assemble in their Lodge room at the time
determined upon. After the brethren are assembled, the Grand Master, or
Instituting Officer, will assume the East and announce the object of the
meeting. He then causes the Letter of Dispensation to be read, after
which the names of the officers appointed by the Grand Master and by the
Master of the new Lodge will be announced. As these names are called,
the officers will form in line near and facing the East, when each
officer will be invested with his jewel. The new Master will then be
seated in the East, on the right of the Instituting Officer. The Wardens
and other officers will take their respective stations. The Instituting
Officer will then open the Lodge on the third degree of Masonry, and
deliver to the officers and brethren the following


Charges to the Officers and Brethren.

Inst. Off.: Worshipful Master: (Who rises.) The Grand Master having
committed to your care the superintendence and government of the
brethren who are to compose this new lodge, you cannot be insensible of
the obligations which devolve on you, as their head, nor of your
responsibility for the faithful discharge of the important duties
attached to your office.

The honor, reputation, and usefulness of your Lodge will materially
depend on the skill and assiduity with which you manage its concerns;
while the happiness of its members will be generally promoted in
proportion to the zeal and ability with which you propagate the genuine
principles of our institution.

For a pattern of imitation, consider the sun, which, rising in the east,
regularly diffuses light and luster to all within its circle. In like
manner, it is in your province to spread and communicate light and
instruction to the brethren of your Lodge. Forcibly impress upon them
the dignity and high importance of Masonry; and seriously admonish them
never to disgrace it. Charge them to practice out of the Lodge, those
duties which they have been taught in it; and by amiable, discreet, and
virtuous conduct, to convince mankind of the goodness of the
Institution; so that, when any one is said to be a member of it, the
world may know that he is one to whom the burdened heart may pour out
its sorrows, to whom distress may prefer its suit, whose hand is guided
by justice, and whose heart is expanded by benevolence. In short, by a
diligent observance of the by-laws of your Lodge, the Constitution of
Masonry, and above all, the Holy Scriptures, which are given as a rule
and guide to your faith, you will be enabled to acquit yourself with
honor and reputation.


Charge to the Wardens.

Brothers Senior and Junior Wardens: (Who are called up by one knock.)
You are too well acquainted with the principles of Masonry to warrant
any distrust that you will be found wanting in the discharge of your
respective duties. What you have seen praiseworthy in others you should
carefully imitate, and what in them may have appeared defective, you
should in yourselves amend. You should be examples of good order and
regularity, for it is only by a due regard to the laws, in your own
conduct, that you can expect obedience to them from others. You are
assiduously to assist the Master in the discharge of his trust,
diffusing light and imparting knowledge to all whom he shall place under
your care. In the absence of the Master you will succeed to higher
duties; your acquirements must therefore be such that the Craft may
never suffer for want of proper instruction. From the spirit which you
have hitherto evinced, I entertain no doubt that your future conduct
will be such as to merit the applause of your brethren, and the
testimony of a good conscience.


Charge to the Brethren of the Lodge.

    *    *    *

Brethren of ...... Lodge, such is the nature of our Constitution, that
as some must of necessity rule and teach, so others must, of course,
learn to submit and obey. Humility in both is an essential duty. The
officers who are appointed to govern the Lodge are sufficiently
conversant with the rules of propriety and the laws of the Institution
to avoid exceeding the powers with which they are intrusted, and you
are of too generous dispositions to envy their preferment. I therefore
trust that you will have but one aim, to please each other and to unite
in the grand design of being happy and communicating happiness.

Finally, my brethren, as this association has been formed and perfected
in so much unity and concord, in which we greatly rejoice, so may it
long continue. May you enjoy every satisfaction and delight, which
disinterested friendship can afford. May kindness and brotherly
affection distinguish your conduct as men and Masons. Within your
peaceful walls, may your children, and your children's children
celebrate, with joy and gratitude, the annual recurrence of this
auspicious solemnity. And may the tenets of our profession be
transmitted through your Lodge, pure and unimpaired, from generation to
generation.


Proclamation.

Instituting Officer: (Calls up Lodge.) In the name and by the authority
of the Most Worshipful* Grand Master of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of Arkansas, I now declare this Lodge duly instituted and
properly prepared for the transaction of such business as may lawfully
come before it.

* If Grand Master Institutes the Lodge, in person, he will omit what
precedes the * and insert "as."

Instituting Officer: (Addressing Master.) I now deliver to you the
Dispensation empowering you and your brethren to work as a Regular
Lodge. You are its custodian and must see to it that it is present at
all Communications of the Lodge. You must also, as required by law,
safely transmit it to the Grand Secretary just prior to the next Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge, and when this is done, Masonic work in
this Lodge must cease until the Dispensation is continued by the Grand
Lodge, or until the Lodge is constituted. I now deliver to you the gavel
of authority; wield it, my brother, with prudence and discretion. You
will now assume your station.


Constituting a Newly Chartered Lodge.

After the grant of a charter the new Lodge thus created should be
constituted, and its officers installed, by the Grand Master or his
Deputy or some past or present Master. The Lodge is opened on the Third
Degree. The Marshal forms the officers of the new Lodge in front of the
Installing Officer, whereupon the Deputy G. M. addresses the G. M. as
follows:

Most Worshipful, a number of brethren, duly instructed in the mysteries
of Masonry, having assembled together for some time past by virtue of a
dispensation granted them for that purpose, do now desire to be
regularly constituted as a lodge agreeably to the ancient usages and
customs of the fraternity.

The charter is presented by the D. G. M. to the Grand Master, who
examines it and, if correct, proclaims:

G. M.--The charter appears to be correct and is approved. Upon due
deliberation the Grand Lodge has granted the brethren of this new Lodge
a charter establishing and confirming them in the rights and privileges
of a regularly constituted Lodge. We shall now proceed according to the
ancient usage to constitute these brethren into a regular Lodge.

The officers of the new Lodge deliver up their jewels and badges to
their Master, who presents them, with his own, to the D. G. M. and he to
the G. M.

The D. G. M. then presents the Master-elect to the G. M., saying:

D. G. M.--Most Worshipful, I present to you Brother ----, whom the
members of the Lodge now to be constituted have chosen for their Master.

The G. M. asks the brethren if they remain satisfied with their choice.
(They bow in token of assent.)

The Master-elect then presents, severally, his Wardens and other
officers, naming them and their respective offices. The G. M. asks the
brethren if they remain satisfied with each and all of them. (They bow
as before.)

The officers and members of the new Lodge form in front of the G. M. and
the business of consecration commences.

The G. M. and grand officers form around the Lodge, all kneeling.

A piece of solemn music is performed while the Lodge is being uncovered,
after which the first clause of the consecration prayer is rehearsed by
the Grand Chaplain, as follows:

Great Architect of the Universe; Maker and Ruler of all worlds. Deign
from Thy Celestial Temple, from the realms of light and glory, to bless
us in all the purposes of our present assembly. We humbly invoke Thee
to give us at this, and at all times, Wisdom in all our doings, Strength
of mind in all our difficulties, and the Beauty of harmony in all our
communications. Permit us, O Thou author of life and light, great source
of love and happiness, solemnly to consecrate this Lodge to Thy honor
and glory. Amen.

Response by the Officers of the Grand Lodge:

As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without
end. Amen.

The Grand Officers will then rise.


Consecration.

The Deputy Grand Master will step forward and present the Vessel of Corn
(wheat) to the Grand Master, who sprinkles a portion of it upon the
symbol of the Lodge, saying:

May the Giver of every good and perfect gift strengthen this Lodge in
all its philanthropic undertakings.

The following may then be sung:

    When once of old, in Israel,
      Our brethren wrought with toil,
    Jehovah's blessings on them fell,
      In showers of Corn and Wine and Oil.

In like manner, the Senior Grand Warden presents the Vessel of Wine,
which is sprinkled on the Lodge by the Grand Master, saying:

May this Lodge be continually refreshed at the pure fountain of Masonic
virtue.

The following may then be sung:

    When then a shrine to him above
      They built, with worship sin to foil,
    On threshold and on corner-stone
      They poured out Corn and Wine and Oil.

The Junior Grand Warden then presents the Vessel of Oil, which is used
in the same manner, the Grand Master saying:

May the Supreme Ruler of the Universe preserve this Lodge in peace, and
vouchsafe to it every blessing.

The following may then be sung:

    And we have come, fraternal bands,
      With joy and pride and prosperous spoil,
    To honor him by votive hands,
      With streams of Corn and Wine and Oil.

Each vessel after use is placed upon the table.

The Grand Master then orders the Officers of the Grand Lodge to kneel as
before, when the Grand Chaplain will rehearse the remaining portion of
the consecration prayer:

Grant, O Lord, our God, that those who are now about to be invested with
the government of this Lodge may be endowed with wisdom to instruct
their brethren in their duties. May brotherly love, relief and truth
always prevail among the members of this Lodge. May this bond of union
continue to strengthen the Lodges throughout the world. Bless all our
brethren, wherever dispersed, and grant speedy relief to all who are
either oppressed or distressed. We affectionately commend to Thee all
the members of this whole family; may they increase in grace, in the
knowledge of Thee, and in love to each other. Finally, may we finish all
our work here below, with Thy approbation; and then may our transition
from this earthly abode be to Thy heavenly Temple above, there to enjoy
light and glory, and bliss ineffable and eternal. Amen.

Response: (By the Officers of the Grand Lodge.) As it was in the
beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

A short piece of solemn music is then performed, during which the Grand
Officers will rise.


Dedication.

The Grand Master steps forward, and extending his hands over the emblem
of the Lodge, exclaims:

To the memory of the Holy Saints John, we dedicate this Lodge. May every
brother revere their character and imitate their virtues.

Response: (By the brethren.) As it was in the beginning, is now, and
ever shall be, world without end. Amen.

The Officers of the Grand Lodge will then about face, and stand, while
the brethren of the new Lodge, under direction of the Grand Marshal,
make a circuit in procession, single file, and salute the Grand Officers
with their hands crossed upon their breasts, left over right, and heads
slightly bowed while passing. Upon the completion of this ceremony, the
brethren will resume position, facing inward. The Officers of the Grand
Lodge will also resume original position. The Grand Master will call up,
with his gavel, all present, and then proceed to


Constitute the Lodge.

Grand Master: In the name of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the
State of Arkansas, I now constitute and form you, my beloved brethren,
into a Regular Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons. From henceforth we
empower you to meet as a Regular Lodge, constituted in conformity to
the rites of our institution, and the charges of our ancient and
honorable Fraternity; and may the Supreme Architect of the Universe
prosper, direct and counsel you in all your doings.

Response by the brethren: So mote it be.

The Officers of the Grand Lodge will, under the direction of the Grand
Marshal, give the Full Grand Honors. The Grand Marshal will then slowly
replace the covering on the Lodge, during which a choir should chant--

    "Glory be to God on High."

The Grand Marshal will then conduct the Grand Master to his chair, and
instruct the officers of the Grand Lodge to resume their respective
stations; and the members of the new Lodge to resume their seats. During
these movements instrumental music should be performed.

Grand Master: (Calls up the assembly.) Worshipful Grand Marshal, you
will make proclamation that ...... Lodge, No. ......, has been regularly
constituted.

Grand Marshal: I am directed by the Most Worshipful Grand Master to
proclaim, and I do hereby proclaim, that ...... Lodge, No. ......, has
been regularly constituted, and duly registered as such in the Grand
Lodge of Arkansas. This proclamation is made from the East, (one knock
by G. M.); from the West, (one knock by the S. G. W.); from the South,
(one knock by the J. G. W.); once, twice, thrice; the Craft will take
due notice and govern itself accordingly. The Grand Honors are given.

Grand Master seats the brethren.




LAYING CORNER STONES.


These ceremonies are conducted only by the Grand Master in person, or by
some brother acting for him, under special dispensation, assisted by the
officers of the Grand Lodge, and such of the Craft as may be invited, or
who may choose to attend, either as Lodges, or as individual brethren.

No corner-stone should be laid with Masonic ceremonies, except those of
acknowledged public structures, or buildings which are to be used for
Masonic purposes; and then only by special request of the proper
authorities.

The Lodge or Lodges in the place where the building is to be erected,
may invite such neighboring Lodges, and other Masonic bodies, as they
may deem proper. The Chief Magistrate, and other Officers of the place,
should also be invited to attend on the occasion.

At the time appointed for the ceremony, a sufficient number of brethren
to act as Grand Officers are convened in a suitable place, where a
Special Communication of the Grand Lodge will be opened on the Third
Degree, and proper instructions given by the Grand Master; after which,
the Officers of the Grand Lodge, under the direction of the Grand
Marshal, will form in the following order:

                           Grand Tyler.
                       (with drawn sword.)

                          Master Masons.

    Grand Steward.          A Brother.         Grand Steward.
    (carrying rod.)      (carrying Bible,     (carrying rod.)
                       Square and Compass,
                          on a cushion.)

                         Grand Chaplain.

          Grand Secretary,               Grand Treasurer,
    (carrying scroll, containing     (in charge of the box[A]
       list of articles to be          to be deposited under
          placed under the               the corner-stone.)
           corner-stone.)

    Gr'd Steward,     Past Gr'd Officers,[B]    Gr'd Steward,
    (carrying rod.)   (in the order of their  (carrying rod.)
    G                   rank, two abreast.)
    R
    A                 Principal Architect,[C]
    N          (carrying Square, Level and Plumb.)
    D

    M       Jr. Grand Warden,         Sr. Grand Warden,
    A   (carrying vessel of oil.)  (carrying vessel of wine.)
    R
    S                 Deputy Grand Master.
    H              (carrying vessel of corn.)
    A
    L               Master of Oldest Lodge,
    .          (carrying book of constitutions.)

    Jr. Grand Deacon,     Grand Master.     Sr. Grand Deacon,
    (carrying rod.)                           (carrying rod.)

The procession thus formed will proceed to join the general procession,
if any, and march to the place where the ceremony is to be performed.

[A] This box may be carried by the Treasurer, or be sent in advance to
the site of the corner-stone, as circumstances may dictate.

[B] In the absence of Past Grand Officers, these Stewards will support
the Deputy Grand Master and Grand Warden.

[C] If the architect of the building is not a member of the Masonic
Fraternity, the Square, Level and Plumb will be carried by a brother
appointed for the purpose, who will deliver them to the architect on
arriving at the corner-stone.

When a procession is composed of other than the officers of the Grand
Lodge and Master Masons, it should be formed in the following order:

    G                          Music.
    R
    A M                      Military.
    N A
    D R          Civic Societies and Organizations.
      S
      H  Chief Magistrate, Mayor or other Official Guests.
      A
      L               Knights Templar Escort.
      .
                            Grand Lodge.

Should any Masonic body other than those above named appear, they will
be assigned an appropriate place in the procession.

A triumphal arch is usually erected near the place where the ceremony is
to be performed; and the corner-stone should have engraved on its face
the words, "Laid by the Masonic Fraternity," with the date, the year of
Masonry, the name of the Grand Master, and such other particulars as may
be deemed proper.

When the head of the procession reaches the Arch, it will open to the
right and left, facing inward. The Grand Master, uncovering, preceded by
the Grand Marshal and Grand Tyler, and followed by the other Grand
Officers and the Chief Magistrate and civil officers of the place, will
pass through the lines and ascend to the platform. As the Grand Master
and others advance, the remainder of the procession will counter-march
and surround the platform.

The stone should be suspended about six feet from its bed, by a machine
having suitable arrangements for slowly lowering it to its place. All
being in readiness--

The Grand Master will command silence and address the assembly,
announcing the purposes of the occasion, etc., concluding as follows:

The teachings of Freemasonry inculcate, that in all our works, great or
small, begun and finished, we should seek the aid of Almighty God. It is
our first duty, then, to invoke the blessing of the great Architect of
the Universe upon the work in which we are about to engage. I therefore
command the utmost silence, and call upon all to unite with our Grand
Chaplain in an address to the Throne of Grace.

The brethren uncover, while the Grand Chaplain delivers the following,
or some other appropriate


Prayer.

Almighty God! who hath given us grace at this time, with one accord, to
make our common supplication unto Thee, and dost promise, that where two
or three are gathered together in Thy name, Thou wilt grant their
request; fulfill now, O Lord! the desires and petitions of Thy servants,
as may be most expedient for them; granting us in this world, knowledge
of Thy truth; and in the world to come, life everlasting. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

The choir may then sing an Ode, or a piece of instrumental music may be
performed.


Deposit of Memorials.

Grand Master: R. W. Brother Grand Treasurer, it has ever been the
custom, on occasions like the present, to deposit within a cavity in
the stone, placed in the north-east corner of the edifice, certain
memorials of the period at which it was erected; so that in the lapse of
ages, if the fury of the elements, or the slow but certain ravages of
time, should lay bare its foundation, an enduring record may be found by
succeeding generations, to bear testimony to the energy, industry and
culture of our time. Has such a deposit been prepared?

Grand Treasurer: It has, Most Worshipful Grand Master, and the various
articles of which it is composed are safely enclosed within the casket
now before you.

Grand Master: R. W. Grand Secretary, you will read for the information
of the brethren and others here assembled, a record of the contents of
the casket.

Grand Secretary reads a list of the articles contained in the casket.

Grand Master: R. W. Grand Treasurer, you will now deposit the casket in
the cavity beneath the corner-stone, and may the Great Architect of the
Universe, in His wisdom, grant that ages on ages shall pass away ere it
again be seen of men.

Grand Treasurer, assisted by the Grand Secretary, will place the casket
in the cavity prepared, and report:

Most Worshipful Grand Master, your orders have been duly executed.


Presentation of Working Tools.

Principal Architect delivers the working tools to the Grand Master, who
retains the Trowel, and presents the Square, Level and Plumb to the
Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand Warden, respectively,
saying:

Right Worshipful Brethren, you will receive the implements of your
office. With your assistance and that of the Craft, I will now proceed
to lay the corner-stone of this edifice, according to the custom of our
Fraternity. Brother Grand Marshal, you will direct the Craftsmen to
furnish the cement, and prepare to lower the stone.


Laying Stone.

The Grand Master will then spread a portion of the cement. The stone is
then lowered slowly, during which there should be appropriate music. The
Grand Master then says:


Trial of Stone.

R. W. Deputy Grand Master, what is the proper implement of your office?

D. G. Master: The Square.

G. M.: What are its moral and Masonic uses?

D. G. M.: To square our actions by the rule of virtue, and prove our
work.

G. M.: Apply the implement of your office to that portion of the stone
that needs to be proved, and make report.

The Square is applied to the four corners.

D. G. M.: Most Worshipful Grand Master, I find the stone to be square.
The Craftsmen have done their duty.

G. M.: R. W. Senior Grand Warden, what is the proper implement of your
office?

S. G. W.: The Level.

G. M.: What are its Masonic uses?

S. G. W.: Morally, it teaches Equality; and by it we prove our work.

G. M.: Apply the implement of your office to that portion of the
corner-stone that needs to be proved, and make report.

Level is applied to the top surface.

S. G. W.: Most Worshipful Grand Master, I find the stone to be level.
The Craftsmen have done their duty.

G. M.: R. W. Junior Warden, what is the proper implement of your office?

J. G. W.: The Plumb.

G. M.: What are its moral and Masonic uses?

J. G. W.: Morally, it teaches rectitude of conduct; and by it we prove
our work.

G. M.: Apply the implement of your office to that portion of the
corner-stone that needs to be proved, and make report.

The Plumb is applied to the sides of the stone.

J. G. W.: Most Worshipful Grand Master, I find the stone to be plumb.
The Craftsmen have done their duty.

Grand Master (striking the stone three times with his gavel), says:

This corner-stone has been tested by the proper implements of Masonry. I
find that the Craftsmen have skillfully and faithfully done their duty;
and I do declare the stone to be well formed and trusty, truly laid, and
correctly proved according to the rules of our Ancient Craft. May the
building be conducted and completed amid the blessings of Plenty, Health
and Peace.

Response by the Craft: So mote it be.


Consecration.

Grand Master: Brother Grand Marshal, you will present the elements of
consecration to the proper officers.

Grand Marshal presents vessel of corn to the D. G. M.; the wine to the
S. G. W.; and the oil to the J. G. W.

Deputy Grand Master advances with the corn, scattering it on the stone,
and says:

I scatter this corn as an emblem of Plenty; may the blessings of
bounteous Heaven be showered upon us, and upon all like patriotic and
important undertakings, and inspire the hearts of the people with
virtue, wisdom and gratitude.

Response by the Craft: So mote it be.

Senior Grand Warden advances with the vessel of wine, pouring it on the
stone, and says:

I pour this wine as an emblem of Joy and Gladness. May the great Ruler
of the Universe bless and prosper our National, State and City
Governments; preserve the union of the States in harmony and brotherly
love, which shall endure through all time.

Response by the Craft: So mote it be.

Junior Warden advances with the vessel of oil, pouring it on the stone,
saying:

I pour this oil as an emblem of Peace; may its blessings abide with us
continually; and may the Grand Master of Heaven and Earth shelter and
protect the widow and orphan, and vouchsafe to them, and to the
bereaved, the afflicted and sorrowing, everywhere, the enjoyment of
every good and perfect gift.

Response by the Craft: So mote it be.

Grand Master, extending his hands, pronounces the following invocation:

May corn, wine and oil, and all the necessaries of life, abound among
men throughout the world. May the blessing of Almighty God be upon this
undertaking. May He protect the workmen from every accident. May the
structure here to be erected, be planned with Wisdom, supported by
Strength, and adorned in Beauty, and may it be preserved to the latest
ages, a monument to the energy and liberality of its founders.

Response by the Craft: So mote it be.


Proclamation.

Grand Master: (Addressing Architect.) Worthy sir (or brother), having
thus, as Grand Master of Masons, laid the corner-stone of the structure,
I now return to you these implements of Operative Masonry (presents
Square, Level and Plumb), having full confidence in your skill and
capacity to perform the important duties confided to you, to the
satisfaction of those who have entrusted you with their fulfillment.

The G. M. strikes the stone three times with the gavel, and the public
grand honors are given.

The Grand Master will then make report of his doings, as follows:

I have the honor to report, that in compliance with the request of the
proper authorities, the corner-stone of the ...... building to be
erected on this site, has been laid successfully, with the ancient
ceremonies of the Craft. The Brother Grand Marshal will therefore make
the proclamation.

Grand Marshal: In the name of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of Arkansas, I now proclaim that the
corner-stone of the structure to be erected, has this day been found
true and trusty, and laid according to the old customs, by the Grand
Master of Masons.


Closing Ode.


Oration.


Benediction.

Glory be to God on High, and on earth peace, good will toward men! O
Lord, we most heartily beseech Thee with Thy favor to behold and bless
this assemblage; pour down Thy mercies, like the dew that falls upon the
mountains, upon Thy servants engaged in the solemn ceremonies of this
day. Bless, we pray Thee, all the workmen who shall be engaged in the
erection of this edifice; keep them from all forms of accidents and
harm; grant them in health and prosperity to live; and finally, we hope,
after this life, through Thy mercy and forgiveness to attain everlasting
joy and felicity in Thy bright mansion, in Thy holy temple, not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

After which, the Grand Lodge, with escort, returns to the place whence
it started, and is closed.

The Lodges, and other Masonic bodies, return to their respective halls.

 * * *




DEDICATION OF MASONIC HALLS.


At the time appointed for the celebration of the ceremony of dedication,
the Grand Master and his officers, accompanied by the members of the
Grand Lodge, meet in a convenient room, near to the place where the
ceremony is to be performed, and the Grand Lodge is opened in ample
form.

The procession is then formed, under direction of the Grand Marshal,
when the Grand Lodge moves to the hall to be dedicated, in the following
order:

    Music;

    Tiler, with drawn sword;

    Stewards, with white rods;

    Master Masons;

    Grand Secretaries;

    Grand Treasurers;

    A Past Master, bearing the Holy Writings, Square and Compass,
    supported by two Stewards, with rods;

    Two Burning Tapers, borne by two Past Masters;

    Chaplain and Orator;

    Past Grand Wardens;

    Past Deputy Grand Masters;

    Past Grand Masters;

    The Globes;

    Junior Grand Warden, carrying a silver vessel with corn;

    Senior Grand Warden, carrying a silver vessel with wine;

    Deputy Grand Master, carrying a golden vessel with oil;

    The Lodge,
    Covered with white linen, carried by four Brethren;

    Master of the oldest Lodge, carrying Book of Constitutions;

    Grand Master,
    Supported by two Deacons, with rods.

When the Grand Officers arrive at the center of the Lodge room, the
Grand honors are given.

The Grand Officers then repair to their respective stations.

The Lodge is placed in front of the altar, toward the East, and the gold
and silver vessels and lights are placed around it.

These arrangements being completed, the following or some other
appropriate Ode is sung:

    Master Supreme! accept our praise;
      Still bless this consecrated band;
    Parent of light! illume our ways,
      And guide us by thy sovereign hand.

    May Faith, Hope, Charity, divine,
      Here hold their undivided reign;
    Friendship and Harmony combine
      To soothe our cares--to banish pain.

    May pity dwell within each breast,
      Relief attend the suffering poor;
    Thousands by this, our Lodge, be blest,
      Till worth, distress'd, shall want no more.

The Master of the Lodge to which the hall to be dedicated belongs, then
rises, and addresses the Grand Master as follows:

Most Worshipful: The brethren of ...... Lodge, being animated with a
desire to promote the honor and interest of the Craft, have erected a
Masonic Hall, for their convenience and accommodation. They are desirous
that the same should be examined by the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge; and
if it should meet their approbation, that it be solemnly dedicated to
Masonic purposes, agreeably to ancient form and usage.

The Architect or Brother who has had the management of the structure
then addresses the Grand Master as follows:

Most Worshipful: Having been entrusted with the superintendence and
management of the workmen employed in the construction of this edifice;
and having, according to the best of my ability, accomplished the task
assigned me, I now return my thanks for the honor of this appointment,
and beg leave to surrender up the implements which were committed to my
care, when the foundation of this fabric was laid, (presenting to the
Grand Master the Square, Level and Plumb), humbly hoping that the
exertions which have been made on this occasion will be crowned with
your approbation, and that of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge.

To which the Grand Master replies:

Brother Architect: The skill and fidelity displayed in the execution of
the trust reposed in you at the commencement of this undertaking, have
secured the entire approbation of the Grand Lodge; and they sincerely
pray that this edifice may continue a lasting monument of the taste,
spirit, and liberality of its founders.

The Deputy Grand Master then rises, and says:

Most Worshipful: The hall in which we are now assembled, and the plan
upon which it has been constructed, having met with your approbation,
it is the desire of the Fraternity that it should be now dedicated,
according to ancient form and usage.

The Lodge is then uncovered, and a procession is made around it in the
following form, during which solemn music is played.

    Grand Tiler, with drawn sword;

    A Past Master, with light;

    A Past Master, with Bible, Square and Compass,
    on a velvet cushion;

    Two Past Masters, each with a light;

    Grand Secretary and Treasurer, with emblems;

    Grand Junior Warden, with vessel of corn;

    Grand Senior Warden, with vessel of wine;

    Deputy Grand Master, with vessel of oil;

    Grand Master;

    Two Stewards, with rods.

When the procession arrives at the East, it halts; the music ceases, and
the Grand Chaplain makes the following


Consecration Prayer.

Almighty and ever-glorious and gracious Lord God, Creator of all things,
and Governor of everything Thou hast made, mercifully look upon Thy
servants, now assembled in Thy name and in Thy presence, and bless and
prosper all our works begun, continued, and ended in thee. Graciously
bestow upon us Wisdom, in all our doings; Strength of mind in all our
difficulties, and the Beauty of harmony and holiness in all our
communications and work. Let Faith be the foundation of our Hope, and
Charity the fruit of our obedience to Thy revealed will.

May all the proper work of our institution that may be done in this
house be such as Thy wisdom may approve and Thy goodness prosper. And,
finally, graciously be pleased, O Thou Sovereign Architect of the
Universe, to bless the Craft, wheresoever dispersed, and make them true
and faithful to Thee, to their neighbor, and to themselves. And when the
time of our labor is drawing near to an end, and the pillar of our
strength is declining to the ground, graciously enable us to pass
through the "valley of the shadow of death," supported by Thy rod and
Thy staff, to those mansions beyond the skies where love, and peace, and
joy forever reign before Thy throne. Amen.

Response: So mote it be!

All the other brethren keep their places, and assist in singing the Ode,
which continues during the procession, excepting only at the intervals
of dedication.


Song.

Tune--Old Hundred.

    Genius of Masonry, descend,
      And with thee bring thy spotless train,
    Constant our sacred rites attend,
      While we adore thy peaceful reign.

The first procession being made around the Lodge, the Grand Master
having reached the East, the Grand Junior Warden presents the vessel of
Corn to the G. Master, saying:

Most Worshipful: In the dedications of Masonic Halls, it has been of
immemorial custom to pour corn upon the Lodge, as an emblem of
nourishment. I, therefore, present you this vessel of corn, to be
employed by you according to ancient usage.

The Grand Master then, striking thrice with his mallet pours the corn
upon the Lodge, saying:

In the name of the great Jehovah, to whom be all honor and glory, I do
solemnly dedicate this hall to Freemasonry.

The grand honors are given.

    Bring with thee Virtue, brightest maid!
      Bring Love, bring Truth, bring Friendship here;
    While social Mirth shall lend her aid
      To soothe the wrinkled brow of Care.

The second procession is then made around the Lodge, and the Grand
Senior Warden presents the vessel of wine to the Grand Master, saying:

Most Worshipful: Wine, the emblem of refreshment, having been used by
our ancient brethren in the dedication and consecration of their Lodges,
I present you this vessel of wine, to be used on the present occasion
according to ancient Masonic form.

The Grand Master then sprinkles the wine upon the Lodge, saying:

In the name of the holy Saints John, I do solemnly dedicate this hall to
Virtue.

The grand honors are twice repeated.

    Bring Charity! with goodness crowned,
      Encircled in thy heavenly robe!
    Diffuse thy blessings all around,
      To every corner of the Globe!

The third procession is then made round the Lodge, and the Deputy Grand
Master presents the vessel of oil to the Grand Master, saying:

Most Worshipful: I present you, to be used according to ancient custom,
this vessel of oil, an emblem of that joy which should animate every
bosom on the completion of every important undertaking.

The Grand Master then sprinkles the oil upon the Lodge, saying:

In the name of the whole Fraternity, I do solemnly dedicate this hall to
Universal Benevolence.

The grand honors are thrice repeated.

    To Heaven's high Architect all praise,
      All praise, all gratitude be given,
    Who deigned the human soul to raise,
      By mystic secrets, sprung from Heaven.

The Grand Chaplain, standing before the Lodge, then makes the following


Invocation.

And may the Lord, the giver of every good and perfect gift, bless the
brethren here assembled, in all their lawful undertakings, and grant to
each one of them, in needful supply, the corn of nourishment, the wine
of refreshment, and the oil of joy. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

The Lodge is then covered, and the Grand Master retires to his chair.

The following or an appropriate original oration may then be delivered,
and the ceremonies conclude with music:

Brethren: The ceremonies we have performed are not unmeaning rites, nor
the amusing pageants of an idle hour, but have a solemn and instructive
import. Suffer me to point it out to you, and to impress upon your minds
the ennobling sentiments they are so well adapted to convey.

This Hall, designed and built by Wisdom, supported by Strength, and
adorned in Beauty, we are first to consecrate in the name of the great
Jehovah; which teaches us, in all our works, begun and finished, to
acknowledge, adore, and magnify Him. It reminds us, also, in His fear to
enter the door of the Lodge, to put our trust in him while passing its
trials, and to hope in Him for the reward of its labors.

Let, then, its altar be devoted to His service, and its lofty arch
resound with His praise! May the eye which seeth in secret witness here
the sincere and unaffected piety which withdraws from the engagements of
the world to silence and privacy, that it may be exercised with less
interruption and less ostentation.

Our march round the Lodge reminds us of the travels of human life, in
which Masonry is an enlightened, a safe, and a pleasant path. Its
tesselated pavement of Mosaic-work intimates to us the chequered
diversity and uncertainty of human affairs. Our step is time; our
progression, eternity.

Following our ancient Constitutions, with mystic rites we dedicate this
Hall to the honor of Freemasonry.

Our best attachments are due to the Craft. In its prosperity, we find
our joy; and, in paying it honor, we honor ourselves. But its worth
transcends our encomiums, and its glory will outsound our praise.

Brethren: It is our pride that we have our names on the records of
Freemasonry. May it be our high ambition that they should shed a luster
on the immortal page!

The hall is also dedicated to Virtue.

This worthy appropriation will always be duly regarded while the moral
duties which our sublime lectures inculcate, with affecting and
impressive pertinency, are cherished in our hearts and illustrated in
our lives.

As Freemasonry aims to enliven the spirit of Philanthropy, and promote
the cause of Charity, so we dedicate this Hall to Universal Benevolence;
in the assurance that every brother will dedicate his affections and his
abilities to the same generous purpose; that while he displays a warm
and cordial affection to those who are of the Fraternity, he will extend
his benevolent regards and good wishes to the whole family of mankind.

Such, my brethren, is the significant meaning of the solemn rites we
have just performed, because such are the peculiar duties of every
Lodge. I need not enlarge upon them now, nor show how they diverge, as
rays from a center, to enlighten, to improve, and to cheer the whole
circle of life. Their import and their application is familiar to you
all. In their knowledge and their exercise may you fulfill the high
purposes of the Masonic Institution.

How many pleasing considerations, my brethren, attend the present
interview! While in almost every other association of men, political
animosities, contentions, and wars interrupt the progress of Humanity
and the cause of Benevolence, it is our distinguished privilege to dwell
together in peace, and engage in plans to perfect individual and social
happiness. While in many other nations our Order is viewed by
politicians with suspicion, and by the ignorant with apprehension, in
this country its members are too much respected, and its principles too
well known, to make it the object of jealousy or mistrust. Our private
assemblies are unmolested; and our public celebrations attract a more
general approbation of the Fraternity. Indeed, its importance, its
credit, and, we trust, its usefulness, are advancing to a height unknown
in any former age. The present occasion gives fresh evidence of the
increasing affection of its friends; and this noble apartment, fitted up
in a style of such elegance and convenience, does honor to Freemasonry,
as well as reflects the highest credit on the respectable Lodge for
whose accommodation and at whose expense it is erected.

We offer our best congratulations to the Worshipful Master, Wardens,
Officers, and Members of ...... Lodge. We commend their zeal, and hope
it will meet with the most ample recompense. May their Hall be the happy
resort of Piety, Virtue, and Benevolence! May it be protected from
accident, and long remain a monument of their attachment to Freemasonry!
May their Lodge continue to flourish; their union to strengthen; and
their happiness to abound!--And when they, and we all, shall be removed
from the labors of the earthly Lodge, may we be admitted to the
brotherhood of the perfect, in the building of God, the Hall not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens!

The Grand Lodge is again formed in procession, as at first, returns to
the room where it was opened, and is closed in ample form.




MASONIC FUNERAL SERVICE


General Directions.

1. No Freemason can be buried with the formalities of the Fraternity
unless it be at his own request or that of some of his family,
communicated to the Master of the Lodge of which he was a member at the
time of his death, foreigners or sojourners excepted; nor unless he has
received the Master Mason degree; and to this rule there can be no
exception.

2. Fellow Crafts or Entered Apprentices are not entitled to these
obsequies, nor can they be allowed in the procession, as Masons, at a
Masonic funeral.

3. The Master of the Lodge, having received notice of the death of a
brother (the deceased having attained the degree of Master Mason), and
of his request to be buried with the ceremonies of the Craft, fixes the
day and hour for the funeral (unless previously arranged by the friends
or relatives of the deceased), and issues his order to the Secretary to
summon the Lodge. Members of other Lodges may be invited, but they
should join with the Lodge performing the ceremonies.

4. Upon the death of a sojourner who had expressed a wish to be buried
with Masonic ceremonies, the duties prescribed in Article 3 will devolve
upon the Master of the Lodge within whose jurisdiction the death may
have occurred, unless there be more than one Lodge in the place; and if
so the funeral service will be performed by the oldest Lodge, unless
otherwise mutually arranged.

5. Whenever other societies or the military unite with Masons in the
burial of a Mason, the body of the deceased must be in charge of the
Lodge having jurisdiction, and the services should, in all respects, be
conducted as if none but Masons were present.

6. If the deceased was a Grand or Past Grand Officer the Officers of the
Grand Lodge should be invited; when the Master of the Lodge having
jurisdiction will invite the Grand Officer present who has attained the
highest rank to conduct the burial service.

7. The pallbearers should be Masons, and should be selected by the
Master, with the approval of the family of the deceased. If the deceased
was a member of a Chapter or other Masonic body, a portion of the
pallbearers should be taken from these bodies severally.

8. The proper clothing to be worn at a Masonic funeral is black or dark
clothes, a black necktie, white gloves, and a white apron, and a sprig
of evergreen on the left breast. The Master's gavel, the Wardens'
columns, the Deacons' and Stewards' rods, the Tiler's sword and the
Marshal's baton, should be trimmed with black crape. The officers of the
Lodge and Grand Officers should wear their official jewels.

9. As soon as the remains are placed in the coffin there should be
placed upon it a plain white lambskin apron.

10. If a Past or Present Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, or Grand
Warden, should join the procession of a Lodge, proper attention must be
paid to them. They take place after the Master of the Lodge. Two
Deacons, with white rods, should be appointed by the Master to attend
them.

11. When the head of the procession shall have arrived at the place of
interment, or where the services are to be performed, the lines should
be opened, and the highest officer in rank, preceded by the Marshal and
Tiler, pass through, and the others follow in order.

12. Upon arriving at the entrance to the cemetery, the brethren should
march in open order to the tomb or grave. If the body is to be placed in
the former, the Tiler should take his place in front of the open door,
and the lines be spread so as to form a circle. The coffin should be
deposited within the circle, and the Stewards and Deacons should cross
their rods over it. The bearers should take their places on either
side--the mourners at the foot of the coffin, and the Master and other
officers at the head. After the coffin has been placed in the tomb, the
Stewards should cross their rods over the door and the Deacons over the
Master. If the body is to be deposited in the earth, an oblong square
should be formed around the grave, the body being placed on rests over
it; the Stewards should cross their rods over the foot, and the Deacons
the head, and retain their places throughout the services.

13. After the clergymen shall have performed the religious services of
the church, the Masonic services should begin.

14. When a number of Lodges join in a funeral procession, the position
of the youngest Lodge is at the head, or right, of the procession, and
the oldest at the end, or left, excepting that the Lodge of which
deceased was a member walks nearest the corpse.

15. A Lodge in procession is to be strictly under the discipline of the
Lodge room; therefore no brother can enter the procession or leave it
without express permission from the Master, conveyed through the
Marshal. The Lodge is open and not at refreshment.


Service in Lodge Room.

The brethren having assembled at the lodge room, the Lodge will be
opened briefly on the Third Degree; the purpose of the communication
must be stated, and remarks upon the character of the deceased may be
made by the Master and brethren, when the service will commence, all the
brethren standing:

Master: What man is he that liveth and shall not see death? Shall he
deliver his soul from the land of the grave?

S. W.: His days are as grass; as a flower of the field so he
flourisheth.

J. W.: For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place
thereof shall know it no more.

M.: Where is now our departed brother?

S. W.: He dwelleth in night; he sojourneth in darkness.

J. W.: Man walketh in a vain shadow; he heapeth up riches, and cannot
tell who shall gather them.

M.: When he dieth, he shall carry nothing away; his glory shall not
descend after him.

S. W.: For he brought nothing into the world, and it is certain he can
carry nothing out.

J. W.: The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name
of the Lord.

M.: The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in
mercy.

S. W.: God is our salvation; our glory and the rock of our strength; and
our refuge is in God.

J. W.: He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us
according to our iniquities.

M.: Can we offer any precious gift acceptable in the sight of the Lord
to redeem our brother?

S. W.: We are poor and needy. We are without gift or ransom.

J. W.: Be merciful unto us, O Lord, be merciful unto us; for we trust in
Thee. Our hope and salvation are in Thy patience. Where else can we look
for mercy?

M.: Let us endeavor to live the life of the righteous, that our last end
may be like his.

S. W.: The Lord is gracious and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.

J. W.: God is our God forever and ever; He will be our guide, even unto
death.

M.: Shall our brother's name and virtues be lost upon the earth forever?

Response: We will remember and cherish them in our hearts.

M.: I heard a voice from heaven, saying unto me: "Write from henceforth,
Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord! Even so, saith the Spirit; for
they rest from their labors."

Here the Master will take the Sacred Roll (a sheet of parchment or paper
prepared for the purpose), on which have been inscribed the name, age,
date of initiation or affiliation, date of death, and any matters that
may be interesting to the brethren, and shall read the same aloud, and
shall then say:

Almighty Father! in Thy hands we leave, with humble submission, the soul
of our departed brother.

Response; Amen! So mote it be.

The Masonic funeral honors should then be given once; the brethren to
respond:

The will of God is accomplished. Amen. So mote it be!

The Master should then deposit the Roll in the archives of the Lodge.

The following or some appropriate Hymn may be sung:


Ode--Air, Balerma. C. M.

    Few are thy days, and full of woe,
      O man, of woman born!
    Thy doom is written, "Dust thou art,
      And shalt to dust return."

    Behold the emblem of thy state
      In flowers that bloom and die;
    Or in the shadow's fleeting form,
      That mocks the gazer's eye.

    Determined are the days that fly
      Successive o'er thy head;
    The number'd hour is on the wing,
      That lays thee with the dead.

    Great God! afflict not, in Thy wrath,
      The short alloted span
    That bounds the few and weary days
      Of pilgrimage to man.

The Master or Chaplain will repeat the following or some other
appropriate Prayer:

Almighty and Heavenly Father! infinite in wisdom, mercy and goodness,
extend to us the blessings of Thy everlasting grace. Thou alone art a
refuge and help in trouble and affliction. In this bereavement we look
to Thee for support and consolation. Strengthen our belief that Death
hath no power over a faithful and righteous soul! Though the dust
returneth to the dust as it was, the spirit returneth unto Thee. As we
mourn the departure of a brother beloved from the circle of our
Fraternity, may we trust that he hath entered into a higher brotherhood,
to engage in nobler duties and in heavenly work, to find rest from
earthly labor and refreshment from earthly care. May Thy peace abide
within us, to keep us from all evil! Make us grateful for present
benefits, and crown us with immortal life and honor. And to Thy name
shall be all the glory forever. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

A procession should then be formed, which will proceed to the church or
the house of the deceased, in the following order:

         Tiler, with drawn sword.
         Masters of Ceremony, with white rods.
    M    Master Masons.
    A    Secretary and Treasurer.
    R    Senior and Junior Wardens.
    S    Past Masters.
    H    The Chaplain.
    A    The Three Great Lights
    L    on a cushion, covered with black cloth, carried
    .    by a member of the Lodge.
         The Master,
         supported by two Deacons, with white rods.

When the head of the procession arrives at the entrance to the building,
it should halt and open to the right and left, forming two parallel
lines, when the Marshal, with the Tiler, will pass through the lines and
escort the Master or Grand Officer into the house, the brethren closing
in and following, thus reversing the order of procession; the brethren
with heads uncovered.


Service at Church or House of Deceased.

After the religious services have been performed, the Master will take
his station at the head of the coffin, the Senior Warden at his right,
the Junior Warden at his left; the Deacons and Stewards, with white rods
crossed, the former at the head, and the latter at the foot of the
coffin, the brethren forming a circle around all, when the Masonic
service will commence by the Chaplain or Master repeating the following
or some other appropriate prayer, in which all the brethren will join:

(Scripture can be used here.)


Prayer.

Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily
bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass
against us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
For Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

Master: Brethren, we are called upon by the imperious mandate of the
dread messenger Death, against whose free entrance within the circle of
our Fraternity the barred doors and Tiler's weapon offer no impediment,
to mourn the loss of one of our companions. The dead body of our beloved
Brother lies in its narrow house before us, overtaken by that fate which
must sooner or later overtake us all; and which no power or station, no
virtue or bravery, no wealth or honor, no tears of friends or agonies of
relatives can avert; teaching an impressive lesson, continually
repeated, yet soon forgotten, that every one of us must ere long pass
through the shadow of death, and dwell in the house of darkness.

S. Warden: In the midst of life we are in death; of whom may we seek
succor but of Thee, O Lord, who for our sins art justly displeased. Thou
knowest, Lord, the secrets of our hearts; shut not Thy merciful ears to
our prayer.

J. Warden: Lord, let me know my end, and the number of my days; that I
may be certified how long I have to live.

Master: Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble.
He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down; he fleeth also as a
shadow, and continueth not. Seeing his days are determined, the number
of his months is with Thee; Thou hast appointed his bounds that he
cannot pass; turn from him that he may rest, till he shall accomplish
his day. For there is a hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will
sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. But man
dieth and wasteth away; yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he?
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up,
so man lieth down, and riseth not till the heavens be no more.

S. Warden: Our life is but a span long, and the days of our pilgrimage
are few and full of evil.

J. Warden: So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts
unto wisdom.

Master: Man goeth forth to his work and to his labor until the evening
of his day. The labor and work of our brother are finished. As it hath
pleased Almighty God to take the soul of our departed brother, may he
find mercy in the great day when all men shall be judged according to
the deeds done in the body. We must walk in the light while we have
light; for the darkness of death may come upon us at a time when we may
not be prepared. Take heed, therefore, watch and pray; for ye know not
when the time is; ye know not when the Master cometh--at even, at
midnight, or in the morning. We should so regulate our lives by the line
of rectitude and truth that in the evening of our days we may be found
worthy to be called from labor to refreshment, and duly prepared for a
translation from the terrestrial to the celestial Lodge, to join the
Fraternity of the spirits of just men made perfect.

S. Warden: Behold, O Lord, we are in distress! Our hearts are turned
within us; there is none to comfort us; our sky is darkened with clouds,
and mourning and lamentations are heard among us.

J. Warden: Our life is a vapor that appeareth for a little while, and
then vanisheth away. All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as
the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth
away.

Master--It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the
house of feasting; for that is the end of all men; and the living will
lay it to his heart.

Response: So mote it be.


Ode--Air, Naomi.

    Here Death his sacred seal hath set,
      On bright and by-gone hours;
    The dead we mourn are with us yet,
      And--more than ever--ours!

    Ours, by the pledge of love and faith;
      By hopes of heaven on high;
    By trust, triumphant over death,
      In immortality.

    The dead are like the stars by day,
      Withdrawn from mortal eye;
    Yet holding unperceived their way
      Through the unclouded sky.

    By them, through holy hope and love,
      We feel, in hours serene,
    Connected with the Lodge above,
      Immortal and unseen.

The service may be concluded with the following, or some other suitable
prayer:

Most Glorious God, Author of all good and Giver of all mercy, pour down
Thy blessings upon us, and strengthen our solemn engagements with the
ties of sincere affection. May the present instance of mortality remind
us of our own approaching fate, and, by drawing our attention toward
Thee, the only refuge in time of need, may we be induced to so regulate
our conduct here that when the awful moment shall arrive at which we
must quit this transitory scene, the enlivening prospect of Thy mercy
may dispel the gloom of death, and that after our departure hence in
peace and Thy favor, we may be received into Thine everlasting kingdom,
and there join in union with our friends, and enjoy that uninterrupted
and unceasing felicity which is allotted to the souls of just men made
perfect. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

If the remains of the deceased are to be removed to a distance, where
the brethren cannot follow to perform the ceremonies at the grave, the
procession will return to the Lodge room or disperse, as most
convenient.


Service at Grave.

When the solemn rites of the dead are to be performed at the grave, the
procession should be formed, and proceed to the place of interment in
the following order:

    Tiler, with drawn sword.

    Masters of Ceremony, with white rods.

    Musicians,
    if they are Masons; otherwise they follow the Tiler.

    Master Masons.

    Secretary and Treasurer.

    M     Senior and Junior Wardens.
    A
    R         Past Masters.
    S
    H         Chaplain.
    A
    L     The Three Great Lights
          on a cushion, covered with black cloth, carried by
          a member of the Lodge.

    The Master,
    Supported by two Deacons with white rods.

    Officiating Clergy.

    Pall Bearers.      Pall Bearers.
               Mourners.

If the deceased was a member of a Royal Arch Chapter and a Commandery of
Knights Templar, and members of those bodies should unite in the
procession, clothed as such, the former will follow the Past Masters,
and the latter will act as an escort or guard of honor to the corpse,
outside the pallbearers, marching in the form of a triangle, the
officers of the Commandery forming the base of the triangle, with the
Eminent Commander in the center.

When the procession has arrived at the place of interment the members of
the Lodge should form a square around the grave; when the Master,
Chaplain and other officers of the acting Lodge, take their position at
the head of the grave, and the mourners at the foot.

After the clergyman has performed the religious service of the Church,
the Masonic service should begin.

The Chaplain rehearses the following, or some other suitable prayer:


Prayer.

Almighty and most merciful Father, we adore Thee as the God of time and
eternity. As it hath pleased Thee to take from the light of our abode
one dear to our hearts, we beseech Thee to bless and sanctify unto us
this dispensation of Thy providence. Inspire our hearts with wisdom from
on high, that we may glorify Thee in all our ways. May we realize that
Thine All-Seeing Eye is upon us, and be influenced by the spirit of
truth and love to perfect obedience--that we may enjoy Thy divine
approbation here below. And when our toils on earth shall have ended,
may we be raised to the enjoyment of fadeless light and immortal life in
that kingdom where faith and hope shall end, and love and joy prevail
through eternal ages. And Thine, O righteous Father, shall be the glory
forever. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

The following exhortation is then given by the Master:

The solemn notes that betoken the dissolution of this earthly tabernacle
have again alarmed our outer door, and another spirit has been summoned
to the land where our fathers have gone before us.

Again we are called to assemble among the habitations of the dead, to
behold the "narrow house appointed for all living." Here, around us, in
that peace which the world cannot give or take away, sleep the
unnumbered dead. The gentle breeze fans their verdant covering, they
heed it not; the sunshine and the storm pass over them, and they are not
disturbed; stones and lettered monuments symbolize the affection of
surviving friends, yet no sound proceeds from them, save that silent but
thrilling admonition, "Seek ye the narrow path and the straight gate
that lead unto eternal life."

We are again called upon to consider the uncertainty of human life, the
immutable certainty of death, and the vanity of all human pursuits.
Decrepitude and decay are written upon every living thing. The cradle
and the coffin stand in juxtaposition to each other; and it is a
melancholy truth that so soon as we begin to live, that moment we also
begin to die. It is passing strange that, notwithstanding the daily
mementos of mortality that cross our path--notwithstanding the funeral
bells so often toll in our ears and the "mournful processions" go about
our streets--we will not more seriously consider our approaching fate.
We go on from design to design, add hope to hope, and lay out plans for
the employment of many years, until we are suddenly alarmed at the
approach of the Messenger of Death, at a moment when we least expect
him, and which we probably conclude to be the meridian of our existence.

What, then, are all the externals of human dignity--the power of wealth,
the dreams of ambition, the pride of intellect, or the charms of
beauty--when Nature has paid her just debt? Fix your eyes on the last
sad scene, and view life stripped of its ornaments, and exposed in its
natural weakness, and you must be persuaded of the utter emptiness of
these delusions. In the grave, all fallacies are detected, all ranks are
leveled, all distinctions are done away. Here the scepter of the prince
and the staff of the beggar are laid side by side.

Our present meeting and proceedings will have been vain and useless, if
they fail to excite our serious reflections, and strengthen our
resolutions of amendment.

Be then persuaded, my brethren, by this example of the uncertainty of
human life, of the unsubstantial nature of all its pursuits, and no
longer postpone the all-important concern of preparing for eternity. Let
us each embrace the present moment, and while time and opportunity
permit, prepare for that great change when the pleasures of the world be
as a poison to our lips, and the happy reflections consequent upon a
well-spent life afford the only consolation.

Thus shall our hopes be not frustrated, nor we be hurried unprepared
into the presence of that all-wise and powerful Judge, to whom the
secrets of all hearts are known. Let us resolve to maintain with
sincerity the dignified character of our profession. May our Faith be
evinced in a correct moral walk and deportment; may our Hope be bright
as the glorious mysteries that will be revealed hereafter; and our
Charity boundless as the wants of our fellow-creatures. And, having
faithfully discharged the great duties which we owe to God, to our
neighbor, and to ourselves, when at last it shall please the Grand
Master of the Universe to summon us into His eternal presence, may the
Trestle-board of our whole lives pass such inspection that it may be
given unto each of us to "eat of the hidden manna," and to receive the
"white stone with a new name" that will insure perpetual and unspeakable
happiness at His right hand.

The Lambskin being removed from the coffin, the Master holds it up and
says:

W. M.: The Lambskin, or white leathern Apron, is an emblem of innocence
and the badge of a Mason; more ancient than the Golden Fleece or Roman
Eagle; more honorable than Star and Garter, when worthily worn. This
emblem I now deposit in the grave of our deceased brother. [Deposits
it.] By it we are reminded of that purity of life and conduct so
essentially necessary to gaining admission to the Celestial Lodge above,
where the Supreme Architect of the Universe presides.

The mattock, the coffin, and the melancholy grave admonish us of our
mortality, and that, sooner or later, these frail bodies must moulder in
their parent dust.

The Master, holding the evergreen, continues:

This evergreen, which once marked the temporary resting-place of the
illustrious dead, is an emblem of our faith in the immortality of the
soul. By it we are reminded that we have an immortal part within us,
that shall survive the grave, and which shall never, never, never die.
By it we are admonished that, though, like our brother whose remains lie
before us, we shall soon be clothed in the habiliments of death, and
deposited in the silent tomb, yet, through our belief in the mercy of
God, we may confidently hope that our souls will bloom in eternal
spring. This, too, I deposit in the grave.

The brethren then move in procession round the place of interment, and
severally drop the sprig of evergreen into the grave, during which the
following may be sung:


Funeral Dirge.

      Hark! from the tombs a doleful sound!
        Mine ears attend the cry:
      "Ye living men, come view the ground
        Where you must shortly lie.

      "Princes! this clay must be your bed,
        In spite of all your towers;
      The tall, the wise, the reverend head,
        Must lie as low as ours."

      Great God! Is this our certain doom?
        And are we still secure?
      Still walking downward to the tomb,
        And yet prepared no more?

      Grant us the power of quick'ning grace,
        To fit our souls to fly;
    Then, when we drop this dying flesh,
      We'll rise above the sky.

Or the following:


Pleyel's Hymn.

      Solemn strikes the fun'ral chime,
      Notes of our departing time;
      As we journey here below
      Through a pilgrimage of woe.

      Mortals, now indulge a tear,
      For mortality is here!
      See how wide her trophies wave
      O'er the slumbers of the grave!

      Here another guest we bring!
      Seraphs of celestial wing,
    To our funeral altar come,
      Waft our friend and brother home.

      Lord of all! below--above--
      Fill our hearts with truth and love;
    When dissolves our earthly tie
      Take us to Thy Lodge on high.

After which the Masonic funeral honors are given.

The Grand Honors, practiced among Masons at funerals, whether in public
or private, are given in the following manner: Both arms are crossed on
the breast, the left uppermost, and the open palms of the hands sharply
striking the shoulders; they are then raised above the head, the palms
striking each other, and then made to fall smartly upon the thighs. This
is repeated three times, and while they are being given the third time,
the brethren audibly pronounce the following words--when the arms are
crossed on the breast: "We cherish his memory here;" when the hands are
extended above the head: "We commend his spirit to God who gave it;" and
when the hands are extended toward the ground: "And consign his body to
the grave."

The Master then continues the ceremony:

The Great Creator, having been pleased to remove our brother from the
cares and troubles of this transitory existence to a state of endless
duration, thus severing another link from the fraternal chain that binds
us together, may we who survive him be more strongly cemented in the
ties of union and friendship; and, during the short space allotted us
here, we may wisely and usefully employ our time, and, in the reciprocal
intercourse of kind and friendly acts, mutually promote the welfare and
happiness of each other.

Unto the grave we now consign his body--earth to earth; ashes to ashes;
dust to dust--there to remain until the trump shall sound on the
Resurrection morn. We can trustfully leave him in the hands of Him who
doeth all things well, who is "glorious in holiness, fearful in praises,
doing wonders."

To those of his immediate relatives and friends who are most
heart-stricken at the loss we have all sustained, we have but little of
this world's consolation to offer; we can only sincerely, deeply and
most affectionately sympathize with them in their afflictive
bereavement; but we can say, that He who tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb looks down with infinite compassion upon the widow and fatherless
in the hour of their desolation; and that the Great Architect will fold
the arms of His love and protection around those who put their trust in
Him.

Then let us improve this solemn warning, so that, when the sheeted dead
are stirring, when the great white throne is set, we shall receive from
the Omniscient Judge the thrilling invitation, "Come, ye blessed,
inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world."

The services will close with the following or some other suitable
prayer:


Prayer.

Most Glorious God, Author of all good and Giver of all mercy, pour down
Thy blessings upon us, and strengthen our solemn engagements with the
ties of sincere affection. May the present instance of mortality remind
us of our own approaching fate, and, by drawing our attention toward
Thee, the only refuge in time of need, may we be induced to so regulate
our conduct here that when the awful moment shall arrive at which we
must quit this transitory scene, the enlivening prospect of Thy mercy
may dispel the gloom of death, and that after our departure hence in
peace and Thy favor, we may be received into Thine everlasting kingdom,
and there enjoy that uninterrupted and unceasing felicity which is
allotted to the souls of just men made perfect. "Bless those who are
bereaved by this sad providence, and make this brotherhood faithful to
their solemn vows, to comfort, aid, and protect those thus left to their
sacred charge."

And now, O Lord, we pray for Thy hand to lead us in all the paths our
feet must tread; and when the journey of life is ended, may light from
our immortal home illuminate the dark valley and shadow of death, and
voices of the loved ones welcome us to that "house not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens." Amen.

Response: So mote it be.

The Master then approaches the head of the grave (or the entrance to the
tomb), and gently says:

Soft and safe to thee, my brother, be this earthly bed. Bright and
glorious be thy rising from it. Fragrant be the acacia sprig that here
shall flourish. May the earliest buds of spring unfold their beauties on
this, thy resting place; and here may the sweetness of the summer's rose
linger latest. Though the cold blast of autumn may lay them in the dust,
and for a time destroy the loveliness of their existence, yet the
destruction is not final, and in the springtime they shall surely bloom
again. So, in the bright morning of the world's resurrection, thy mortal
frame, now laid in the dust by the chilling blast of death, shall spring
again into newness of life, and expand, in immortal beauty, in realms
beyond the skies. Until then, dear brother, until then, farewell.

The Benediction will then be pronounced by the Master, or Chaplain, as
follows:

The Lord bless us and keep us. The Lord make His face to shine upon us
and be gracious unto us. The Lord lift up the light of His countenance,
and give us peace. Amen.

Response: So mote it be.


End of Service at Grave.

In very inclement weather service at the grave can be shortened by
omitting any part of the ceremony except the apron, acacia and honors.


ANOTHER SERVICE AT THE GRAVE.

At the grave the Lodge forms a circle or semicircle. The Master and
other officers of the Lodge take their position at the head of the
grave; the Tyler behind the Master, and the mourners at the foot. The
religious burial service of the church (if there be any) should be first
performed, after which the Masonic service begins:

The following passage of Scripture, from Ecclesiastes, chapter xii,
verses 1-7, is read:

Chaplain: Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the
evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have
no pleasure in them; while the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the
stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain; in the day
when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall
bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those
that look out of the windows be darkened; and the doors shall be shut in
the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low; and he shall rise up
at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be
brought low; also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and
fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the
grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail; because man goeth
to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets; or ever the
silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be
broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern. Then shall
the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto
God who gave it.

Master: One by one they pass away--the brothers of our adoption, the
companions of our choice. A brother whose hand we have clasped in the
bonds of fraternal fellowship now lies before us in the rigid embrace of
death. All that remains of one near and dear to us is passing from our
sight, and we know that we shall meet him on earth no more.

We, who knew him so well in our brotherhood, feel that in his departure
from among the living, something has gone out of our own lives that can
never be again. Thus, as human ties are broken, the world becomes less
and less, and the hope to be reunited with friends who are gone, grows
more and more. Here is immediate compensation, which, while it cannot
assuage our grief, may teach resignation to the inevitable doom of all
things mortal.

While we stand around the open grave, in the presence of a body once,
and so lately, warm with life and animate with thought, now lingering
for a brief moment at the dark portal of the tomb--like a beam of holy
light the belief must come, this cannot be all there is of day. Stricken
human nature cries out: There must be a dawn beyond this darkness and a
never setting sun, while this short life is but a morning star.

The cycles of Time roll with the procession of seasons. Spring is bloom;
summer is growth; autumn is fruition; winter is the shroud, and beneath
its cold, yet kindly fold, live the germs of a new life. Spring comes
again; growth matures, and fruit is eternal. This is the religion and
lesson of Nature, and the universal example cannot fail in relation to
man. Let us draw comfort and consolation from things visible in this sad
scene, and lift our eyes to the invisible Father of all with renewed
faith that we are in His Holy Hands. Besides His infinitude of worlds,
we have also His word, "That He is All, and All-upholding."

We can do nothing for the dead. We can only offer respect to our
brother's inanimate clay, and cherish his memory in the abiding faith
that our temporary loss is his eternal gain. In this belief let us
commit him with due reverence to the keeping of the All-Father, who is
supreme in wisdom, infinite in love, and ordereth all things well.

(Family service to be omitted in case no relatives of the deceased are
present.)

While we pay this tribute of respect and love to the memory of our late
brother, let us not forget to extend our fraternal sympathy to his
deeply afflicted and sorrowing family (wife, children, father, mother,
brothers, sisters, as the relatives may be present): In your irreparable
bereavement, and as he, for whom we are all mourners, was true to us,
and faithful to the ties of our brotherhood, so shall we be true to you
in the practice of the principles of Freemasonry and in tender memory of
our loved and lost. He gave much of his time to us in devotion to our
cause. We owe a grateful acknowledgement to you for his social
companionship and service, and mingle our sorrows at parting with
yours, his near and dear relations.

Master: "May we be true and faithful; and may we live and die in love!"

Response: "So mote it be."

Master: "May we profess what is good, and always act agreeably to our
profession!"

Response: "So mote it be."

Master: "May the Lord bless us and prosper us, and may all our good
intentions be crowned with success."

Response: "So mote it be."

The apron is taken from the coffin and handed to the Master; and while
the coffin is being lowered into the grave, either of the following
funeral dirges may be sung--the one used, to be selected and announced
before leaving the lodge-room:


Funeral Dirge.

Air--Pleyel's Hymn.

    Solemn strikes the funeral chime,
    Notes of our departing time,
    As we journey here below
    Through a pilgrimage of woe.

    Mortals, now indulge a tear,
    For Mortality is here;
    See how wide her trophies wave,
    O'er the slumber of the grave!

    Here another guest we bring;
    Seraphs of celestial wing,
    To our funeral altar come,
    Waft our friend and brother home.

    Lord of all! below--above--
    Fill our hearts with truth and love;
    When dissolves our earthly tie,
    Take us to Thy lodge on high.


Hark, From the Tombs.

    Hark, from the tombs, a doleful sound,
      Mine ears attend the cry:
    "Ye living men; come view the ground
      Where you must shortly lie.

    "Princes, this clay must be your bed,
      In spite of all your towers;
    The tall, the wise, the reverend head
      Must lie as low as ours."

    Great God! Is this our certain doom?
      And are we still secure?
    Still walking downward to the tomb,
      And yet prepared no more?

    Grant us the power of quick'ning grace,
      To fit our souls to fly;
    Then, when we drop this dying flesh,
      We'll rise above the sky.

At the conclusion of the singing, the Master, displaying the apron,
continues:

The Lambskin, or white leathern apron, is an emblem of innocence, and
the badge of a Mason; more honorable than the crown of royalty, or the
emblazoned insignia of princely orders, when worthily worn.

The Master drops the apron into the grave.

Our brother was worthy of its distinction, and it shall bear witness to
his virtues, and our confidence in the sincerity of his profession.

W. M.: (Taking off his white glove and holding it up.) This Glove is a
symbol of fidelity and is emblematic of that Masonic friendship which
bound us to him whose tenement of clay now lies before us. It reminds us
that while these mortal eyes shall see him not again, yet, by the
practice of the tenets of our noble order and a firm faith and steadfast
trust in the Supreme Architect, we hope to clasp once more his vanished
hand in friendship and in love. (Deposits glove.) Those whom virtue
unites, death can never separate.

The Master, displaying an evergreen sprig, continues:

The Evergreen is emblematic of our Faith in Immortality.

This green sprig is the symbol of that vital spark of our being which
continues to glow more divinely when the breath leaves the body, and can
never, never, never die.

The Master drops the evergreen in the grave, and the Brothers each make
a similar deposit, with as little confusion as possible.

If the place is convenient, they march around the grave in a line. When
all are again settled in their places, the public Grand Honors are given
by three times three.

The will of God is accomplished; so mote it be. Amen.

The Master then continues:

Change is the universal law of mortality, and the theme of every page of
its history. Here we view the most striking illustration of change that
can be presented to mortal eyes, minds and hearts. Ties of fraternity,
friendship, love, all broken, and earthly pursuits, hopes and affections
laid waste by death. Let us profit by this example of the uncertainty of
the world, and resolve to live honest, pure and worshipful lives in
daily preparation for the summons that will, sooner or later, surely
come. It came to our brother, whose remains we have here laid away to
rest eternal, and reminds us that we, too, are mortal--subject to the
universal law. Our brother is dead, and cannot speak for himself. Let us
defend his good name. Frailties he may have had, as what mortal man has
not? To err is human, charity is Divine, and judgment is with the
Almighty and All-Merciful. In this resting place of the body, virtues
only are remembered, and sweet memories bloom.

All must pass through the Shadow of Death, and each one must make the
dark journey without the companionship of earthly friend. Let us all
hasten to secure the passport of an upright life, to the glories of a
better land. Unto the grave we have resigned the body of our brother.

The Master scatters a handful of earth in the grave.

Earth to earth; dust to dust (the S. W. scatters dirt in the grave);
ashes to ashes (the J. W. scatters dirt in the grave); there to remain
until the dawn of that resplendent day, when again, the morning stars
shall sing together, and all the sons of God shall shout for joy.

Prayer by the Chaplain.

Chaplain: Almighty and eternal God, in whom we live and move, and have
our being--and before whom all men must appear, in the judgment day to
give an account of their deeds in life, we, who are daily exposed to the
flying shafts of death, and now surround the grave of our fallen
brother, most earnestly beseech Thee to impress deeply on our minds the
solemnities of this day, as well as the lamentable occurrence that has
occasioned them. Here may we be forcibly reminded that in the midst of
life we are in death, and that whatever elevation of character we may
have obtained, however upright and square the course we have pursued,
yet shortly we must all submit as victims of its destroying power, and
endure the humbling level of the tomb, until the last loud trump shall
sound the summons of our resurrection from mortality and corruption.

May we have Thy divine assistance, O merciful God, to redeem our
mis-spent time; and in the discharge of our important duties Thou has
assigned us, in the erection of our moral edifice, may we have wisdom
from on high to direct us, strength commensurate with our task to
support us, and the beauty of holiness to adorn and render all our
performances acceptable in Thy sight. And when our work is done, and our
bodies mingle with the mother earth, may our souls, disengaged from
their cumbrous dust, flourish and bloom in eternal day; and enjoy that
rest which Thou hast prepared for all good and faithful servants, in
that spiritual house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens,
through the great Redeemer. Amen.

So mote it be. Amen.

Fill grave.

W. M.: Soft and safe, my brother, be this thy earthly bed. Bright and
glorious be thy rising from it. In the glorious morning of the
resurrection may thy body spring again into newness of life, to live
forever in the home of the blest. Until then, dear brother, farewell.


Benediction.

Chaplain: The Lord bless us and keep us. The Lord make his face to shine
upon us and be gracious unto us. The Lord lift up the light of his
countenance and give us peace. Amen.




RITUAL FOR A LODGE OF SORROW.


The following Ritual for a Lodge of Sorrow is recommended for use in the
Lodges. While necessarily of a funeral character, it differs essentially
from the burial service. In the latter case, we are in the actual
presence of the departed, and engaged in the last rites of affection and
respect for one who has been our companion in life, and whose mortal
remains we are about to consign to their last resting-place. The Lodge
of Sorrow, on the contrary, is intended to celebrate the memory of our
departed brethren; and while we thus recall to our recollection their
virtues, and temper anew our resolutions so to live, that, when we shall
have passed the silent portals, our memories may be cherished with
grateful remembrance, we learn to look upon death from a more elevated
point of view; to see in it the wise and necessary transition from the
trials and imperfections of this world, to the perfect life for which
our transient journey here has been the school and the preparation.
Vocal and instrumental music are indispensable to the proper effect of
the ceremony. The brethren should wear dark clothing, and white gloves
and aprons. There is no necessity for any attempt at secrecy in the
ceremonies of Sorrow Lodges. They may be held in churches or public
halls, or in the presence of friends at the Lodge room, with benefit to
all concerned.


Preparation of the Hall.

I. The Lodge room should be appropriately draped in black, and the
several stations covered with the same emblem of mourning.

II. On the Master's pedestal is a skull and lighted taper.

III. In the center of the room is placed the catafalque, which consists
of a rectangular platform, about six feet long by four feet wide, on
which are two smaller platforms, so that three steps are represented. On
the third one should be an elevation of convenient height, on which is
placed an urn. The platform should be draped in black, and a canopy of
black drapery may be raised over the urn and platform.

IV. At each corner of the platform will be placed a candlestick, bearing
a lighted taper, and near it, facing the East, will be seated a brother,
provided with an extinguisher, to be used at the proper time.

V. During the first part of the ceremonies the lights in the room should
burn dimly.

VI. Arrangements should be made to enable the light to be increased to
brilliancy at the appropriate point in the ceremony.

VII. On the catafalque will be laid a pair of white gloves, a lambskin
apron, and if the deceased brother had been an officer, the appropriate
insignia of his office.

VIII. Where the Lodge is held in memory of several brethren, shields
bearing their names are placed around the catafalque.


Opening the Lodge.

The several officers being in their places, and the brethren seated, the
Worshipful Master will call up the Lodge and say:

W. M.: Brother Senior Warden, for what purpose are we assembled?

S. W.: To honor the memory of those brethren whom death hath taken from
us; to contemplate our own approaching dissolution; and, by the
remembrance of immortality, to raise our souls above the considerations
of this transitory existence.

W. M.: Brother Junior Warden, what sentiments should inspire the souls
of Masons on occasions like the present?

J. W.: Calm sorrow for the absence of our brethren who have gone before
us; earnest solicitude for our own eternal welfare, and a firm faith and
reliance upon the wisdom and goodness of the Great Architect of the
Universe.

W. M.: Brethren, commending these sentiments to your earnest
consideration, and invoking your assistance in the solemn ceremonies
about to take place, I declare this Lodge of Sorrow opened.

The Chaplain, or Worshipful Master, will then offer the following, or
some other suitable


Prayer:

Grand Architect of the Universe, in whose holy sight centuries are but
as days; to whose omniscience the past and the future are but as one
eternal present; look down upon Thy children, who still wander among the
delusions of time--who still tremble with dread of dissolution, and
shudder at the mysteries of the future; look down, we beseech Thee,
from Thy glorious and eternal day into the dark night of our error and
presumption, and suffer a ray of Thy divine light to penetrate into our
hearts, that in them may awaken and bloom the certainty of life,
reliance upon Thy promises, and assurance of a place at Thy right hand.
Amen.

Response: So mote it be!

The following, or some other appropriate Ode may here be sung:


Ode.

Tune--Bradford, C. M.

    O brother, thou art gone to rest;
      We will not weep for thee;
    For thou art nowhere, oft on earth,
      Thy spirit longed to be.

    O brother, thou art gone to rest;
      Thy toils and cares are o'er;
    And sorrow, pain, and suffering now
      Shall ne'er distress thee more.

    O brother, thou art gone to rest,
      And this shall be our prayer:
    That, when we reach our journey's end,
      Thy glory we shall share.

The Worshipful Master (taking the skull in his hand) will then say:

Brethren: In the midst of life we are in death, and the wisest cannot
know what a day may bring forth. We live but to see those we love
passing away into the silent land.

Behold this emblem of mortality, once the abode of a spirit like our
own; beneath this mouldering canopy once shone the bright and busy eye;
within this hollow cavern once played the ready, swift, and tuneful
tongue; and now, sightless and mute, it is eloquent only in the lessons
it teaches us.

Think of those brethren, who, but a few days since, were among us in all
the pride and power of life; bring to your minds the remembrance of
their wisdom, their strength, and their beauty; and then reflect that
"to this complexion have they come at last;" think of yourselves, thus
will you be when the lamp of your brief existence has burned out. Think
how soon death, for you, will be a reality. Man's life is like a flower,
which blooms today, and tomorrow is faded, cast aside, and trodden under
foot. The most of us, my brethren, are fast approaching, or have already
passed the meridian of life; our sun is setting in the West; and oh! how
much more swift is the passage of our declining years than when we
started upon the journey, and believed--as the young are too apt to
believe--that the roseate hues of the rising sun of our existence were
always to be continued. When we look back upon the happy days of our
childhood, when the dawning intellect first began to exercise its powers
of thought, it seems as but yesterday, and that, by a simple effort of
the will, we could put aside our manhood, and seek again the loving
caresses of a mother, or be happy in the possession of a bauble; and
could we now realize the idea that our last hour had come, our whole
earthly life would seem but as the space of time from yesterday until
today. Centuries upon centuries have rolled away behind us; before us
stretches out an eternity of years to come; and on the narrow boundary
between the past and the present flickers the puny taper we term our
life. When we came into the world, we knew naught of what had been
before us; but, as we grew up to manhood, we learned of the past; we saw
the flowers bloom as they had bloomed for centuries; we beheld the orbs
of day and night pursuing their endless course among the stars, as they
had pursued it from the birth of light; we learned what men had thought,
and said, and done, from the beginning of the world to our day; but only
through the eye of faith can we behold what is to come hereafter, and
only through a firm reliance upon the Divine promises can we satisfy the
yearnings of an immortal soul. The cradle speaks to us of
remembrance--the coffin, of hope, of a blessed trust in a never-ending
existence beyond the gloomy portals of the tomb.

Let these reflections convince us how vain are all the wranglings and
bitterness engendered by the collisions of the world; how little in
dignity above the puny wranglings of ants over a morsel of food, or for
the possession of a square inch of soil.

What shall survive us? Not, let us hope, the petty strifes and
bickerings, the jealousies and heart-burnings, the small triumphs and
mean advantages we have gained, but rather the noble thoughts, the words
of truth, the works of mercy and justice, that ennoble and light up the
existence of every honest man, however humble, and live for good when
his body, like this remnant of mortality, is mouldering in its parent
dust.

Let the proud and the vain consider how soon the gaps are filled that
are made in society by those who die around them; and how soon time
heals the wounds that death inflicts upon the loving heart; and from
this let them learn humility, and that they are but drops in the great
ocean of humanity.

And when God sends his angel to us with the scroll of death, let us look
upon it as an act of mercy, to prevent many sins and many calamities of
a longer life; and lay down our heads softly and go to sleep, without
wrangling like froward children. For this at least man gets by death,
that his calamities are not immortal. To bear grief honorably and
temperately, and to die willingly and nobly, are the duties of a good
man and true Mason.


Ode.

Tune--Naomi. C. M.

    When those we love are snatched away,
      By Death's relentless hand,
    Our hearts the mournful tribute pay,
      That friendship must demand.

    While pity prompts the rising sigh,
      With awful power imprest;
    May this dread truth, "I too must die,"
      Sink deep in every breast.

    Let this vain world allure no more;
      Behold the opening tomb!
    It bids us use the present hour;
      Tomorrow death may come.

    The voice of this instructive scene
      May every heart obey;
    Nor be the faithful warning vain
      Which calls to watch and pray.

At its conclusion the Chaplain will read the following passages:

Lo, He goeth by me and I see Him not. He passeth on also, but I perceive
Him not. Behold He taketh away, who can hinder Him?

Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. He
cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down; he fleeth also as a shadow,
and continueth not. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his
months are with Thee: Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot
pass; turn from him that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an
hireling, his day. For there is hope of a tree if it be cut down, that
it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die
in the ground, yet through the scent of water it will bud and bring
forth boughs like a plant. But man dieth and wasteth away; yea, man
giveth up the ghost, and where is he? As the waters fail from the sea,
and the flood decayeth and drieth up, so man lieth down, and riseth not;
till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of
their sleep.

My days are passed, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my
heart. If I wait, the grave is mine house; I have made my bed in the
darkness. I have said to corruption, thou art my father. And where is
now my hope? As for my hope, who shall see it? They shall go down to the
bars of the pit, when our rest together is in the dust.

My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh. Oh, that my words were now
written; Oh, that they were printed in a book! That they were graven
with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever! For I know that my
Redeemer liveth, and that He shall stand at the latter day upon the
earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh
shall I see God. Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall
behold, and not another.

For Thou cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas; and Thy floods
compassed me about; all Thy billows and Thy waves passed over me. Then I
said, I am cast out of Thy sight; yet will I look again toward Thy holy
temple. The waters compassed me about, even to the soul, the depth
closed me round about, the weeds were wrapt about my head.

I said, in the cutting off of my days I shall go to the gates of the
grave! I am deprived of the residue of my years; I said, I shall not see
the Lord, even the Lord in the land of the living; I shall behold man no
more with the inhabitants of the world. Behold, for peace I had great
bitterness; but Thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the pit
of corruption. For the grave cannot praise Thee, death cannot celebrate
Thee; the living, the living, he shall praise Thee as I do this day.

Are not my days few? Cease, then, and let me alone, that I may take
comfort a little, before I go whence I shall not return, even to the
land of darkness, and the shadow of death. A land of darkness, as
darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any order, and
where the light is as darkness.

An interval of profound silence will be observed. The general lights of
the hall, if there be convenience, will be turned low, and the four
brethren will extinguish the tapers near which they are placed.


Prayer by the Chaplain.

Our Father Who art in heaven, it hath pleased Thee to take from among us
those who were our brethren. Let time, as it heals the wounds thus
inflicted upon our hearts and on the hearts of those who were near and
dear to them, not erase the salutary lessons engraved there; but let
those lessons, always continuing distinct and legible, make us and them
wiser and better. And whatever distress or trouble may hereafter come
upon us, may we ever be consoled by the reflection that Thy wisdom and
Thy love are equally infinite, and that our sorrows are not the
visitations of Thy wrath, but the result of the great law of harmony by
which everything is being conducted to a good and perfect issue in the
fullness of Thy time. Let the loss of our brethren increase our
affection for those who are yet spared to us, and make us more punctual
in the performance of the duties that friendship, love and honor demand.
When it comes to us also to die, may a firm and abiding trust in Thy
mercy dispel the gloom and dread of dissolution. Be with us now, and
sanctify the solemnities of this occasion to our hearts, that we may
serve Thee in spirit and understanding. And to Thy name shall be
ascribed the praise forever. Amen.

Response: So mote it be!

The Wardens, Deacons and Stewards, will now approach the East and form a
procession, thus:

    Two Stewards, with rods.

    Two Wardens.

    The Worshipful Master, supported by the Deacons, with rods.

This procession will move once around the catafalque to slow and solemn
music. On arriving at the East, the procession will halt and open to the
right and left. The Junior Warden will then advance to the catafalque,
and, placing upon it a bunch of white flowers, will say:

Junior Warden: In memory of our departed brethren I deposit these white
flowers, emblematical of that pure life to which they have been called,
and reminding us that as these children of an hour will droop and fade
away, so, too, shall we soon follow those who have gone before us, and
inciting us so to fill the brief span of our existence that we may leave
to our survivors a sweet savor of remembrance.

The Junior Warden will now return to his place, and an interval of
profound silence will be observed. The procession will again be formed,
and move as before, to the sound of slow music, twice around the
catafalque. They will open as before, and the Senior Warden approaching
the catafalque will place upon it a wreath of white flowers, and say:

Senior Warden: As the sun sets in the West, to close the day and herald
the approach of night, so, one by one we lay us down in the darkness of
the tomb to wait in its calm repose for the time when the heavens shall
pass away as a scroll, and man, standing in the presence of the
Infinite, shall realize the true end of his pilgrimage here below. Let
these flowers be to us the symbol of remembrance of all the virtues of
our brethren who have preceded us to the silent land, the token of that
fraternal alliance which binds us while on earth and which we hope will
finally unite us in heaven.

The Senior Warden returns to his place, and an interval of profound
silence will be observed. The procession will again be formed, and move
three times around the catafalque to slow and solemn music, as before.
Arrived in the East, the Worshipful Master will advance and place upon
the Urn a wreath of evergreen, and say:

Worshipful Master: It is appointed unto all men once to die, and after
death cometh the resurrection. The dust shall return to the earth and
the spirit unto God who gave it. In the grave all men are equal; the
good deeds, the lofty thoughts, the heroic sacrifices alone survive and
bear fruit in the lives of those who strive to emulate them.

While, therefore, nature will have its way, and our tears will fall upon
the graves of our brethren, let us be reminded by the evergreen symbol
of our faith in immortal life that the dead are but sleeping, and be
comforted by the reflection that their memories will not be forgotten;
that they will still be loved by those who are soon to follow them; that
in our archives their names are written, and that in our hearts there is
still a place for them. And so, trusting in the infinite love and tender
mercy of Him without whose knowledge not even a sparrow falls, let us
prepare to meet them where there is no parting, and where with them we
shall enjoy eternal rest.

The Worshipful Master will return to his place, and a period of silence
will obtain. The Chaplain will now be conducted to the altar, where he
will read:

But some man will say: How are the dead raised up? and with what body do
they come? Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it
die; and that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall
be, but bear grain; it may chance of wheat or of some other grain; but
God giveth it a body as it hath pleased Him, and to every seed his own
body.

All flesh is not the same flesh; but there is one kind of flesh of men,
another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds. There
are also celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial; but the glory of the
celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.

There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and
another glory of the stars; for one star differeth from another star in
glory. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in
corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it is
raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is
sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural
body, and there is a spiritual body. And so it is written, the first man
Adam was made a living soul, the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.
Howbeit, that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is
natural; and afterward that which is spiritual. The first man is of the
earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven. As is the earthy,
such are they also that are earthy; and as is the heavenly, such are
they also that are heavenly. And as we have borne the image of the
earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.

Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the
kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I
show you a mystery; we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed;
in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump; for the
trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we
shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and
this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have
put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then
shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed
up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy
victory?

As the Chaplain pronounces the concluding words, "O grave, where is thy
victory?" the lights in the hall will be raised to brilliancy, the four
brethren seated around the catafalque will relight the tapers, while a
strain of triumphant music will be played.

The Chaplain will return to his place in the East, and the following, or
some other appropriate Ode, will be sung to music of a more cheerful
character:


Ode.--Tune, Cary.

    One sweetly solemn thought
      Comes to me o'er and o'er;
    I am nearer home today
      Than I ever have been before.

    Nearer my Father's house,
      Where the many mansions be;
    Nearer the great white throne;
      Nearer the crystal sea.

    Nearer the bound of life,
      Where we lay our burdens down;
    Nearer leaving the cross;
      Nearer gaining the crown.

    But lying darkly between,
      Winding down through the night,
    Is the deep and unknown stream,
      That leads at last to the light.

    Father, perfect my trust!
      Strengthen the might of my faith;
    Let me feel as I would when I stand
      On the rock of the shore of death.

    Feel as I would when my feet
      Are slipping over the brink;
    For it may be, I am nearer home--
      Nearer now than I think.

The Orator will then pronounce the Eulogium.

Then follows the following, or some other appropriate Ode:


Ode.--Tune: Old Hundred. L. M.

    Once more, O Lord, let grateful praise
      From ev'ry heart to Thee ascend;
    Thou art the guardian of our days,
      Our first, our best and changeless friend.

    Hear now our parting hymn of praise,
      And bind our hearts in love divine;
    Oh, may we walk in wisdom's ways,
      And ever feel that we are Thine.


Closing.

Worshipful Master: Brother Senior Warden, our recollection of our
departed friends has been refreshed, and we may now ask ourselves, were
they just and perfect Masons, worthy men, unwearied toilers in the
vineyard, and possessed of so many virtues as to overcome their faults
and shortcomings? Answer these questions, as Masons should answer.

Senior Warden: Man judgeth not of man. He Whose infinite and tender
mercy passeth all comprehension, Whose goodness endureth forever, has
called our brethren hence. Let Him judge.

In ancient Egypt no one could gain admittance to the sacred asylum of
the tomb until he had passed under the most solemn judgment before a
grave tribunal.

Princes and peasants came there to be judged, escorted only by their
virtues and their vices. A public accuser recounted the history of their
lives, and threw the penetrating light of truth on all their actions. If
it were adjudged that the dead man had led an evil life, his memory was
condemned in the presence of the nation, and his body was denied the
honors of sepulture. But Masonry has no such tribunal to sit in judgment
upon her dead; with her, the good that her sons have done lives after
them; and the evil is interred with their bones. She does require,
however, that whatever is said concerning them shall be the truth; and
should it ever happen that of a Mason, who dies, nothing good can be
truthfully said, she will mournfully and pityingly bury him out of her
sight in silence.

Worshipful Master: Brethren, let us profit by the admonitions of this
solemn occasion, lay to heart the truths to which we have listened, and
resolve so to walk that when we lay us down to the last sleep it may be
the privilege of the brethren to strew white flowers upon our graves and
keep our memories as a pleasant remembrance.

Brother Senior Warden: Announce to the brethren that our labors are now
concluded, and that it is my pleasure that this Lodge of Sorrow be
closed.

Senior Warden: Brother Junior Warden, the labors of this Lodge of Sorrow
being ended, it is the pleasure of the Worshipful Master that it be now
closed. Make due announcement to the brethren, and invite them to
assist.

Junior Warden [calling up the Lodge]. Brethren, the labors of this Lodge
of Sorrow being ended, it is the pleasure of the Worshipful Master that
it be now closed.

W. M.: Let us unite with our Chaplain in an invocation to the Throne of
Grace.

    *    *    *

W. M.: This Lodge of Sorrow is now closed.




Transcriber's Note:


The following have been retained as they appear in the original
publication:

    1. alternative spelling for Tiler and Tyler;

    2. hyphenation in corner-stone/corner stone, ever-green/evergreen,
       north-east/northeast and to-morrow/tomorrow;

    3. punctuation in the order of the Special Communication of the
       Grand Lodge;

    4. irregular indentation of verse on pages 63 and 149; and

    5. * * * within the text, and on a line of its own,    *    *    *

Changes have been made as follows:

    Page   2 Election and Installation _changed to_
             Election and Installation.

             Laying Corner Stone _changed to_
             Laying Corner-Stone.

    Page   7 alone valuable a _changed to_
             alone valuable and

    Page   8 vade mecum.' _changed to_
             'vade mecum.'

    Page  10 offend  When we go astray, _changed to_
             offend. When we go astray,

    Page  11 with hands, eternal i _changed to_
             with hands, eternal in the

    Page  12 Brother S. W., how _changed to_
             "Brother S. W., how

    Page  13 selfish and ungodly _changed to_
             selfish and ungodly.

    Page  24 eavesdroppers, as-scending _changed to_
             eavesdroppers, ascending

    Page  29 north of the eliptic _changed to_
             north of the elliptic

    Page  36  hich he is afterwards _changed to_
             which he is afterwards

    Page  47 the Doric Ionic _changed to_
             the Doric, Ionic

             seven sabatical years _changed to_
             seven sabbatical years

             expressions to be intellgible _changed to_
             expressions to be intelligible

    Page  48 and gentle tremulo _changed to_
             and gentle tremolo

    Page  51 to pass the inner door? _changed to_
             to pass the inner door!

    Page  52 to your care. _changed to_
             to your care."

    Page  63 dissolves our eathly _changed to_
             dissolves our earthly

    Page  64 degree of Master Msaon _changed to_
             degree of Master Mason

    Page  65 approaching danger _changed to_
             approaching danger.

    Page  69 darkness to Pharoah _changed to_
             darkness to Pharaoh

    Page  73 problems and theorims _changed to_
             problems and theorems

    Page  82 a lodge For _changed to_
             a lodge for

    Page  83 necessary to eligibilty _changed to_
             necessary to eligibility

    Page  87 with the Constituions _changed to_
             with the Constitutions

    Page  96 calls * * * _changed to_
             calls * * *;

    Page 110 S. G. W.) from the South _changed to_
             S. G. W.); from the South

    Page 112 Past G'rd Officers _changed to_
             Past Gr'd Officers

    Page 119 the folowing invocation _changed to_
             the following invocation

    Page 122 Deacons, with rods; _changed to_
             Deacons, with rods.

    Page 125 bless the Craft, whersoever _changed to_
             bless the Craft, wheresoever

    Page 125 employed by you acording _changed to_
             employed by you according

    Page 138 Master repeating the folowing _changed to_
             Master repeating the following

    Page 138 Try name _changed to_
             Thy name

    Page 140 from the terrestial _changed to_
             from the terrestrial

    Page 143 follow the Tiler _changed to_
             follow the Tiler.

    Page 149 Princes! this clay _changed to_
             "Princes! this clay

    Page 175 terresrtial is another _changed to_
             terrestrial is another





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Masonic Monitor of the Degrees of
Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason, by George Thornburgh

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MASONIC MONITOR ***

***** This file should be named 30118.txt or 30118.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/0/1/1/30118/

Produced by Alicia Williams, Jen Haines and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
